and so am I. Come now!--and so am I." He hesitated, and then
continued: "I have passes and papers, and enough to get you
through a dozen lines. Now, where do you wish to go?"
"When are you to start?" replied Jack, gratefully.
"Say in half an hour. Can Mademoiselle de Nesville stand it?"
"Yes, thank you," said Lorraine, with a tired, quaint politeness
that made them smile.
"Then we wish to get as near to the French Army as we can," said
Jack. "I have a mission of importance. If you could drive us to
the Luxembourg frontier we would be all right--if we had any
money."
"You shall have everything," cried Grahame; "you shall be driven
where you wish. I'm looking for a battle, but I can't seem to
find one. I've been driving about this wreck of a country for the
last three days; I missed Amonvillers on the 18th, and Rezonville
two days before. I saw the battles of Reichshofen and Borney. The
Germans lost three thousand five hundred men at Beaumont, and I
was not there either. But there's a bigger thing on the carpet,
somewhere near the Meuse, and I'm trying to find out where and
when. I've wasted a lot of time loafing about Metz. I want to see
something on a larger scale, not that the Metz business isn't
large enough--two hundred thousand men, six hundred cannon--and
the Red Prince--licking their chops and getting up an appetite
for poor old Bazaine and his battered, diseased, starved,
disheartened army, caged under the forts and citadel of a city
scarcely provisioned for a regiment."
Lorraine, sitting on the edge of the bed, looked at him silently,
but her eyes were full of a horror and anguish that Grahame could
not help seeing.
"The Emperor is with the army yet," he said, cheerfully. "Who
knows what may happen in the next twenty-four hours? Mademoiselle
de Nesville, there are many shots to be fired yet for the honour
of France."
"Yes," said Lorraine.
Instinctively Brocard and Grahame moved towards the door and out
into the road. It was perhaps respect for the grief of this young
French girl that sobered their faces and sent them off to discuss
plans and ways and means of getting across the Luxembourg
frontier without further delay. Jack, left alone with Lorraine in
the dim, smoky room, rose and drew her to the fire.
"Don't be unhappy," he said. "The tide of fortune must turn soon;
this cannot go on. We will find the Emperor and do our part.
Don't look that way, Lorraine, my darling!" He took her in his
arms. She put both arms around his neck, and hid her face.
For a while he held her, watching the fire with troubled eyes.
The room grew darker; a wind arose among the forest trees,
stirring dried leaves on brittle stems; the ashes on the hearth
drifted like gray snowflakes.
Her stillness began to trouble him. He bent in the dusk to see
her face. She was asleep. Terror, pity, anguish, the dreadful
uncertainty, had strained her child's nerves to the utmost; after
that came the deep fatigue that follows torture, and she lay in
his arms, limp, pallid, exhausted. Her sleep was almost the
unconsciousness of coma; she scarcely breathed.
The fire on the hearth went out; the smoking embers glimmered
under feathery ashes. Grahame entered, carrying a lantern.
"Come," he whispered. "Poor little thing!--can't I help you,
Marche? Wait; here's a rug. So--wrap it around her feet. Can you
carry her? Then follow; here, touch my coat--I'm going to put out
the light in my lantern. Now--gently. Here we are."
Jack climbed into the post-chaise; Grahame, holding Lorraine in
his arms, leaned in, and Jack took her again. She had not
awakened.
"Brocard and I are going to sit in front," whispered Grahame. "Is
all right within?"
"Yes," nodded Jack.
The chaise moved on for a moment, then suddenly stopped with a
jerk.
Jack heard Grahame whisper, "Sit still, you fool! I've got
passes; sit still!"
"Let go!" murmured Brocard.
"Sit still!" repeated Grahame, in an angry whisper; "it's all
right, I tell you. Be silent!"
There was a noiseless struggle, a curse half breathed, then a
figure slipped from the chaise into the road.
Grahame sank back. "Marche, that damned poacher will hang us all.
What am I to do?"
"What is it?" asked Jack, in a scarcely audible voice.
"Can't you hear? There's an Uhlan in the road in front. That fool
means to kill him."
Jack strained his eyes in the darkness; the road ahead was black
and silent.
"You can't see him," whispered Grahame. "Brocard caught the
distant rattle of his lance in the stirrup. He's gone to kill
him, the bloodthirsty imbecile!"
"To shoot him?" asked Jack, aghast.
"No; he's got his broad wood-knife--that's the way these brutes
kill. Hark! Good God!"
A scream rang through the forest; something was coming towards
them, too--a horse, galloping, galloping, pounding, thundering
past--a frantic horse that tossed its head and tore on through
the night, mane flying, bridle loose. And there, crouched on the
saddle, two men swayed, locked in a death-clench--an Uhlan with
ghostly face and bared teeth, and Brocard, the poacher, cramped
and clinging like a panther to his prey, his broad knife flashing
in the gloom.
In a second they were gone; far away in the forest the hoof
strokes echoed farther and farther, duller, duller, then ceased.
"Drive on," muttered Jack, with lips that could barely form the
words.
XXIX
THE MESSAGE OF THE FLAG
It was dawn when Lorraine awoke, stifling a cry of dismay. At the
same moment she saw Jack, asleep, huddled into a corner of the
post-chaise, his bloodless, sunken face smeared with the fine red
dust that drifted in from the creaking wheels. Grahame, driving
on the front seat, heard her move.
"Are you better?" he asked, cheerfully.
"Yes, thank you; I am better. Where are we?"
Grahame's face sobered.
"I'll tell you the truth," he said; "I don't know, and I can't
find out. One thing is certain--we've passed the last German
post, that is all I know. We ought to be near the frontier."
He looked back at Jack, smiled again, and lowered his voice:
"It's fortunate we have passed the German lines, because that
last cavalry outpost took all my papers and refused to return
them. I haven't an idea what to do now, except to go on as far as
we can. I wish we could find a village; the horses are not
exhausted, but they need rest."
Lorraine listened, scarcely conscious of what he said. She leaned
over Jack, looking down into his face, brushing the dust from his
brow with her finger-tips, smoothing his hair, with a timid,
hesitating glance at Grahame, who understood and gravely turned
his back.
Jack slept. She nestled down, pressing her soft, cool cheek close
to his; her eyes drooped; her lips parted. So they slept
together, cheek to cheek.
A mist drove across the meadows; from the plains, dotted with
poplars, a damp wind blew in puffs, driving the fog before it
until the blank vapour dulled the faint morning light and the
dawn faded into a colourless twilight. Spectral poplars, rank on
rank, loomed up in the mist, endless rows of them, fading from
sight as the vapours crowded in, appearing again as the fog
thinned in a current of cooler wind.
Grahame, driving slowly, began to nod in the thickening fog. At
moments he roused himself; the horses walked on and the wheels
creaked in the red dust. Hour after hour passed, but it grew no
lighter. Drowsy and listless-eyed the horses toiled up and down
the little hills, and moved stiffly on along the interminable
road, shrouded in a gray fog that hid the very road-side
shrubbery from sight, choked thicket and grove, and blotted the
grimy carriage windows.
Jack was awakened with startling abruptness by Grahame, who shook
his shoulders, leaning into the post-chaise from the driver's
seat.
"There's something in front, Marche," he said. "We've fallen in
with a baggage convoy, I fancy. Listen! Don't you hear the
camp-wagons? Confound this fog! I can't see a rod ahead."
Lorraine, also now wide awake, leaned from the window. The blank
vapour choked everything. Jack rubbed his eyes; his limbs ached;
he could scarcely move. Somebody was running on the road in
front--the sound of heavy boots in the dust came nearer and
nearer.
"Look out!" shouted Grahame, in French; "there's a team here in
the road! Passez au large!"
At the sound of his voice phantoms surged up in the mist around
them; from every side faces looked into the carriage windows,
passing, repassing, disappearing, only to appear again--ghostly,
shadowy, spectral.
"Soldiers!" muttered Jack.
At the same instant Grahame seized the lines and wheeled his
horses just in time to avoid collision with a big wagon in front.
As the post-chaise passed, more wagons loomed up in the fog, one
behind another; soldiers took form around them, voices came to
their ears, dulled by the mist.
Suddenly a pale shaft of light streamed through the fog above;
the restless, shifting vapours glimmered; a dazzling blot grew
from the mist. It was the sun. Little by little the landscape
became more distinct; the pallid, watery sky lightened; a streak
of blue cut the zenith. Everywhere in the road great, lumbering
wagons stood, loaded with straw; the sickly morning light fell on
silent files of infantry, lining the road on either hand.
"It's a convoy of wounded," said Grahame. "We're in the middle of
it. Shall we go back?"
A wagon in front of them started on; at the first jolt a cry sounded
from the straw, another, another--the deep sighs of the dying, the
groans of the stricken, the muttered curses of teamsters--rose in
one terrible plaint. Another wagon started--the wounded wailed;
another started--another--another--and the long train creaked on, the
air vibrating with the weak protestations of miserable, mangled
creatures tossing their thin arms towards the sky. And now, too, the
soldiers were moving out into the road-side bushes, unslinging rifles
and fixing bayonets; a mounted officer galloped past, shouting
something; other mounted officers followed; a bugle sounded
persistently from the distant head of the column.
Everywhere soldiers were running along the road now, grouping
together under the poplar-trees, heads turned to the plain. Some
teamsters pushed an empty wagon out beyond the line of trees and
overturned it; others stood up in their wagons, reins gathered,
long whips swinging. The wounded moaned incessantly; some sat up
in the straw, heads turned also towards the dim, gray plain.
"It's an attack," said Grahame, coolly. "Marche, we're in for it
now!"
After a moment, he added, "What did I tell you? Look there!"
Out on the plain, where the mist was clearing along the edge of a
belt of trees, something was moving.
"What is it?" asked Lorraine, in a scarcely audible voice.
Before Grahame could speak a tumult of cries and groans burst out
along the line of wagons; a bugle clanged furiously; the
teamsters shouted and pointed with their whips.
Out of the shadow of the grove two glittering double lines of
horsemen trotted, halted, formed, extended right and left, and
trotted on again. To the right another darker and more compact
square of horsemen broke into a gallop, swinging a thicket of
lances above their heads, from which fluttered a mass of black
and white pennons.
"Cuirassiers and Uhlans!" muttered Grahame, under his breath. He
stood up in his seat; Jack rose also, straining his eyes, but
Lorraine hid her face in her hands and crouched in the chaise,
her head buried in the cushions.
The silence was enervating; even the horses turned their gentle
eyes wonderingly to that line of steel and lances; even the
wounded, tremulous, haggard, held their breath between clenched
teeth and stiff, swollen lips.
"Nom de Dieu! Serrez les rangs, tas de bleus!" yelled an officer,
riding along the edge of the road, revolver in one hand, naked
sabre flashing in the other.
A dozen artillerymen were pushing a mitrailleuse up behind the
overturned wagon. It stuck in the ditch.
"À nous, la ligne!" they shouted, dragging at the wheels until a
handful of fantassins ran out and pulled the little death machine
into place.
"Du calme! Du calme! Ne tirez pas trop vite, ménagez vos
cartouches! Tenez ferme, mes enfants!" said an old officer,
dismounting and walking coolly out beyond the line of trees.
"Oui! oui! comptez sur nous! Vive le Colonel!" shouted the
soldiers, shaking their chassepots in the air.
On came the long lines, distinct now--the blue and yellow of the
Uhlans, the white and scarlet of the cuirassiers, plain against
the gray trees and grayer pastures. Suddenly a level sheet of
flame played around the stalled wagons; the smoke gushed out
over the dark ground; the air split with the crash of rifles. In
the uproar bugles blew furiously and the harsh German cavalry
trumpets, peal on peal, nearer, nearer, nearer, answered their
clangour.
"Hourra! Preussen!"
The deep, thundering shout rose hoarsely through the rifles'
roaring fusillade; horses reared; teamsters lashed and swore, and
the rattle of harness and wheel broke out and was smothered in
the sheeted crashing of the volleys and the shock of the coming
charge.
And now it burst like an ocean roller, smashing into the wagon
lines, a turmoil of smoke and flashes, a chaos of maddened,
plunging horses and bayonets, and the flashing downward strokes
of heavy sabres. Grahame seized the reins, and lashed his horses;
a cuirassier drove his bloody, foam-covered charger into the road
in front and fell, butchered by a dozen bayonets.
Three Uhlans followed, whirling their lances and crashing through
the lines, their frantic horses crazed by blows and wounds. More
cuirassiers galloped up; the crush became horrible. A horse and
steel-clad rider were hurled bodily under the wagon-wheels--an
Uhlan, transfixed by a bayonet, still clung to his shattered
lance-butt, screaming, staggering in his stirrups. Suddenly the
window of the post-chaise was smashed in and a horse and rider
pitched under the wheels, almost overturning carriage and
occupants.
"Easy, Marche!" shouted Grahame. "Don't try to get out!"
Jack heard him, but sprang into the road. For an instant he
reeled about in the crush and smoke, then, stooping, he seized a
prostrate man, lifted him, and with one tremendous effort pitched
him into the chaise.
Grahame, standing up in the driver's seat, watched him in
amazement for a moment; but his horses demanded all his attention
now, for they were backing under the pressure of the cart in
front.
As for Jack, once in the chaise again he pulled the unconscious
man to the seat, calling Lorraine to hold him up. Then he tore
the Uhlan's helmet from the stunned man's head and flung it out
into the road; after it he threw sabre and revolver.
"Give me that rug!" he cried to Lorraine, and he seized it and
wrapped it around the Uhlan's legs.
Grahame had managed to get clear of the other wagon now and was
driving out into the pasture, almost obscured by rifle smoke.
"Oh, Jack!" faltered Lorraine--"it is Rickerl!"
It was Rickerl, stunned by the fall from his horse, lying back
between them.
"They'd kill him if they saw his uniform!" muttered Jack. "Hark!
the French are cheering! They've repulsed the charge! Grahame, do
you hear?--do you hear?"
"I hear!" shouted Grahame. "These horses are crazy; I can't hold
them."
The troops around them, hidden in the smoke, began to cheer
frantically; the mitrailleuse whirred and rolled out its hail of
death.
"Vive la France! Mort aux Prussiens!" howled the soldiers. A
mounted officer, his cap on the point of his sabre, his face laid
open by a lance-thrust, stood shouting, "Vive la Nation! Vive la
Nation!" while a boyish bugler shook his brass bugle in the air,
speechless with joy.
Grahame drove the terrified horses along the line of wagons for a
few paces, then, wheeling, let them gallop straight out into the
pasture on the left of the road, where a double line of trees in
the distance marked the course of a parallel road.
The chaise lurched and jolted; Rickerl, unconscious still, fell
in a limp heap, but Jack and Lorraine held him up and watched the
horses, now galloping under slackened reins.
"There are houses there! Look!" cried Grahame. "By Jove, there's
a Luxembourg gendarme, too. I--I believe we're in Luxembourg,
Marche! Upon my soul, we are! See! There is a frontier post!"
He tried to stop the horses; two strange-looking soldiers,
wearing glossy shakos and white-and-blue aiguillettes, began to
bawl at him; a group of peasants before the cottages fled,
screaming.
Grahame threw all his strength into his arms and dragged the
horses to a stand-still.
"Are we in Luxembourg?" he called to the gendarmes, who ran up,
gesticulating violently. "Are we? Good! Hold those horses, if you
please, gentlemen. There's a wounded man here. Carry him to one
of those houses. Marche, lift him, if you can. Hello! his arm is
broken at the wrist. Go easy--you, I mean--Now!"
Lorraine, aided by Jack, stepped from the post-chaise and stood
shivering as two peasants came forward and lifted Rickerl. When
they had taken him away to one of the stone houses she turned
quietly to a gendarme and said: "Monsieur, can you tell me where
the Emperor is?"
"The Emperor?" repeated the gendarme. "The Emperor is with his
army, below there along the Meuse. They are fighting--since four
this morning--at Sedan."
He pointed to the southeast.
She looked out across the wide plain.
"That convoy is going to Sedan," said the gendarme. "The army is
near Sedan; there is a battle there."
"Thank you," said Lorraine, quietly. "Jack, the Emperor is near
Sedan."
"Yes," he nodded; "we will go when you can stand it."
"I am ready. Oh, we must not wait, Jack; did you not see how they
even attacked the wounded?"
He turned and looked into her eyes.
"It is the first French cheer I have heard," she continued,
feverishly. "They beat back those Prussians and cheered for
France! Oh, Jack, there is time yet! France is rising now--France
is resisting. We must do our part; we must not wait. Jack, I am
ready!"
"We can't walk," he muttered.
"We will go with the convoy. They are on the way to Sedan, where
the Emperor is. Jack, they are fighting at Sedan! Do you
understand?"
She came closer, looking up into his troubled eyes.
"Show me the box," she whispered.
He drew the flat steel box from his coat.
After a moment she said, "Nothing must stop us now. I am ready!"
"You are not ready," he replied, sullenly; "you need rest."
"'Tiens ta Foy,' Jack."
The colour dyed his pale cheeks and he straightened up. "Always,
Lorraine."
Grahame called to them from the cottage: "You can get a horse and
wagon here! Come and eat something at once!"
Slowly, with weary, drooping heads, they walked across the road,
past a wretched custom-house, where two painted sentry-boxes
leaned, past a squalid barnyard full of amber-coloured, unsavoury
puddles and gaunt poultry, up to the thatched stone house where
Grahame stood waiting. Over the door hung a withered branch of
mistletoe, above this swung a sign:
ESTAMINET.
"Your Uhlan is in a bad way, I think," began Grahame; "he's got a
broken arm and two broken ribs. This is a nasty little place to
leave him in."
"Grahame," said Jack, earnestly, "I've got to leave him. I am
forced to go to Sedan as soon as we can swallow a bit of bread
and wine. The Uhlan is my comrade and friend; he may be more than
that some day. What on earth am I to do?"
They followed Grahame into a room where a table stood covered by
a moist, unpleasant cloth. The meal was simple--a half-bottle of
sour red wine for each guest, a fragment of black bread, and a
râgout made of something that had once been alive--possibly a
chicken, possibly a sheep.
Grahame finished his wine, bolted a morsel or two of bread and
râgout, and leaned back in his chair with a whimsical glance at
Lorraine.
"Now, I'll tell you what I'll do, Marche," he said. "My horses
need rest, so do I, so does our wounded Uhlan. I'll stay in this
garden of Eden until noon, if you like, then I'll drive our
wounded man to Diekirch, where the Hôtel des Ardennes is as good
an inn as you can find in Luxembourg, or in Belgium either. Then
I'll follow you to Sedan."
They all rose from the table; Lorraine came and held out her
hand, thanking Grahame for his kindness to them and to Rickerl.
"Good-by," said Grahame, going with them to the door. "There's
your dog-cart; it's paid for, and here's a little bag of French
money--no thanks, my dear fellow; we can settle all that later.
But what the deuce you two children are going to Sedan for is
more than my old brains can comprehend."
He stood, with handsome head bared, and bent gravely over
Lorraine's hands--impulsive little hands, now trembling, as the
tears of gratitude trembled on her lashes.
And so they drove away in their dog-cart, down the flat,
poplar-bordered road, silent, deeply moved, wondering what the
end might be.
The repeated shocks, the dreadful experiences and encounters, the
indelible impressions of desolation and grief and suffering had
deadened in Lorraine all sense of personal suffering or grief.
For her land and her people her heart had bled, drop by drop--her
sensitive soul lay crushed within her. Nothing of selfish despair
came over her, because France still stood. She had suffered too
much to remember herself. Even her love for Jack had become
merely a detail. She loved as she breathed--involuntarily. There
was nothing new or strange or sweet in it--nothing was left of
its freshness, its grace, its delicacy. The bloom was gone.
In her tired breast her heart beat faintly; its burden was the weary
repetition of a prayer--an old, old prayer--a supplication--for
mercy, for France, and for the salvation of its people. Where she
had learned it she did not know; how she remembered it, why she
repeated it, minute by minute, hour by hour, she could not tell.
But it was always beating in her heart, this prayer--old, so
old!--and half forgotten--
    "'To Thee, Mary, exalted--
    To Thee, Mary, exalted--'"
Her tired heart took up the rhythm where her mind refused to
follow, and she leaned on Jack's shoulder, looking out over the
gray land with innocent, sorrowful eyes.
Vaguely she remembered her lonely childhood, but did not grieve;
vaguely she thought of her youth, passing away from a tear-drenched
land through the smoke of battles. She did not grieve--the last sad
tear for self had fallen and quenched the last smouldering spark of
selfishness. The wasted hills of her province seemed to rise from
their ashes and sear her eyes; the flames of a devastated land
dazzled and pained her; every drop of French blood that drenched
the mother-land seemed drawn from her own veins--every cry of
terror, every groan, every gasp, seemed wrenched from her own
slender body. The quiet, wide-eyed dead accused her, the stark
skeletons of ravaged houses reproached her.
She turned to the man she loved, but it was the voice of a dying
land that answered, "Come!" and she responded with all a passion
of surrender. What had she accomplished as yet? In the bitterness
of her loneliness she answered, "Nothing." She had worked by the
wayside as she passed--in the field, in the hospital, in the
midst of beleaguered soldiers. But what was that? There was
something else further on that called her--what she did not know,
and yet she knew it was waiting somewhere for her. "Perhaps it is
death," she mused, leaning on Jack's shoulder. "Perhaps it is
his death." That did not frighten her; if it was to be, it
would be; but, through it, through the hideous turmoil of fire
and blood and pounding guns and shouting--through death
itself--somewhere, on the other side of the dreadful valley of
terror, lay salvation for the mother-land. Thither they were
bound--she and the man she loved.
All around them lay the flat, colourless plains of Luxembourg; to
the east, the wagon-train of wounded crawled across the landscape
under a pallid sky. The road now bore towards the frontier again;
Jack shook the reins listlessly; the horse loped on. Slowly they
approached the border, where, on the French side, the convoy
crept forward enveloped in ragged clouds of dust. Now they could
distinguish the drivers, blue-bloused and tattered, swinging
their long whips; now they saw the infantry, plodding on behind
the wagons, stringing along on either flank, their officers
riding with bent heads, the red legs of the fantassins blurred
through the red dust.
At the junction of the two roads stood a boundary post. A
slovenly Luxembourg gendarme sat on a stone under it, smoking and
balancing his rifle over both knees.
"You can't pass," he said, looking up as Jack drew rein. A moment
later he pocketed a gold piece that Jack offered, yawned,
laughed, and yawned again.
"You can buy contraband cigars at two sous each in the village
below," he observed.
"What news is there to tell?" demanded Jack.
"News? The same as usual. They are shelling Strassbourg with
mortars; the city is on fire. Six hundred women and children left
the city; the International Aid Society demanded it."
Presently he added: "A big battle was fought this morning along
the Meuse. You can hear the guns yet."
"I have heard them for an hour," replied Jack.
They listened. Far to the south the steady intonation of the
cannon vibrated, a vague sustained rumour, no louder, no lower,
always the same monotonous measure, flowing like the harmony of
flowing water, passionless, changeless, interminable.
"Along the Meuse?" asked Jack, at last.
"Yes."
"Sedan?"
"Yes, Sedan."
The slow convoy was passing now; the creak of wheel and the harsh
scrape of axle and spring grated in their ears; the wind changed;
the murmur of the cannonade was blotted out in the trample of
hoofs, the thud of marching infantry.
Jack swung his horse's head and drove out across the boundary
into the French road. On every side crowded the teams, where the
low mutter of the wounded rose from the foul straw; on every side
pressed the red-legged infantry, rifles en bandoulière,
shrunken, faded caps pushed back from thin, sick faces.
"My soldiers!" murmured Lorraine, sitting up straight. "Oh, the
pity of it!--the pity!"
An officer passed, followed by a bugler. He glanced vacantly at
Jack, then at Lorraine. Another officer came by, leading his
patient, bleeding horse, over which was flung the dusty body of a
brother soldier.
The long convoy was moving more swiftly now; the air trembled
with the cries of the mangled or the hoarse groans of the dying.
A Sister of Mercy--her frail arm in a sling--crept on her knees
among the wounded lying in a straw-filled cart. Over all, louder,
deeper, dominating the confusion of the horses and the tramp of
men, rolled the cannonade. The pulsating air, deep-laden with the
monstrous waves of sound, seemed to beat in Lorraine's face--the
throbbing of her heart ceased for a moment. Louder, louder,
nearer, more terrible sounded the thunder, breaking in long,
majestic reverberations among the nearer hills; the earth began
to shake, the sky struck back the iron-throated echoes--sounding,
resounding, from horizon to horizon.
And now the troops around them were firing as they advanced;
sheeted mist lashed with lightning enveloped the convoy, through
which rang the tremendous clang of the cannon. Once there came a
momentary break in the smoke--a gleam of hills, and a valley
black with men--a glimpse of a distant town, a river--then the
stinging smoke rushed outward, the little flames leaped and sank
and played through the fog. Broad, level bands of mist, fringed
with flame, cut the pasture to the right; the earth rocked with
the stupendous cannon shock, the ripping rifle crashes chimed a
dreadful treble.
There was a bridge there in the mist; an iron gate, a heavy wall
of masonry, a glimpse of a moat below. The crowded wagons,
groaning under their load of death, the dusty infantry, the
officers, the startled horses, jammed the bridge to the parapets.
Wheels splintered and cracked, long-lashed whips snapped and
rose, horses strained, recoiled, leaped up, and fell scrambling
and kicking.
"Open the gates, for God's sake!" they were shouting.
A great shell, moaning in its flight above the smoke, shrieked
and plunged headlong among the wagons. There came a glare of
blinding light, a velvety white cloud, a roar, and through the
gates, no longer choked, rolled the wagon-train, a frantic
stampede of men and horses. It caught the dog-cart and its
occupants with it; it crushed the horse, seized the vehicle, and
flung it inside the gates as a flood flings driftwood on the
rocks.
Jack clung to the reins; the wretched horse staggered out into
the stony street, fell, and rolled over stone-dead.
Jack turned and caught Lorraine in both arms, and jumped to a
sidewalk crowded with soldiers, and at the same time the crush of
wagons ground the dog-cart to splinters on the cobble-stones. The
crowd choked every inch of the pavement--women, children,
soldiers, shouting out something that seemed to move the masses
to delirium. Jack, his arm around Lorraine, beat his way forward
through the throng, murmuring anxiously, "Are you hurt, Lorraine?
Are you hurt?" And she replied, faintly, "No, Jack. Oh, what is
it? What is it?"
Soldiers blocked his way now, but he pushed between them towards
a cleared space on a slope of grass. Up the slope he staggered
and out on to a stone terrace above the crush of the street. An
officer stood alone on the terrace, pulling at some ropes around
a pole on the parapet.
"What--what is that?" stammered Lorraine, as a white flag shot up
along the flag-staff and fluttered drearily over the wall.
"Lorraine!" cried Jack; but she sprang to the pole and tore the
ropes free. The white flag fell to the ground.
The officer turned to her, his face whiter than the flag. The
crowd in the street below roared.
"Monsieur," gasped Lorraine, "France is not conquered! That flag
is the flag of dishonour!"
They stared at each other in silence, then the officer stepped to
the flag-pole and picked up the ropes.
"Not that!--not that!" cried Lorraine, shuddering.
"It is the Emperor's orders."
The officer drew the rope tight--the white flag crawled slowly up
the staff, fluttered, and stopped.
Lorraine covered her eyes with her hands; the roar of the crowd
below was in her ears.
"O God!--O God!" she whispered.
"Lorraine!" whispered Jack, both arms around her.
Her head fell forward on her breast.
Overhead the white flag caught the breeze again, and floated out
over the ramparts of Sedan.
"By the Emperor's orders," said the officer, coming close to
Jack.
Then for the first time Jack saw that it was Georges Carrière who
stood there, ghastly pale, his eyes fixed on Lorraine.
"She has fainted," muttered Jack, lifting her. "Georges, is it
all over?"
"Yes," said Georges, and he walked over to the flag-pole, and
stood there looking up at the white badge of dishonour.
XXX
THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW
Daylight was fading in the room where Lorraine lay in a stupor so
deep that at moments the Sister of Mercy and the young military
surgeon could scarcely believe her alive there on the pillows.
Jack, his head on his arms, stood by the window, staring out
vacantly at the streak of light in the west, against which, on
the straight, gray ramparts, the white flag flapped black against
the dying sun.
Under the window, in the muddy, black streets, the packed throngs
swayed and staggered and trampled through the filth, amid a crush
of camp-wagons, artillery, ambulances, and crowding squadrons of
cavalry. Riotous line soldiers cried out "Treason!" and hissed
their generals or cursed their Emperor; the tall cuirassiers
surged by in silence, sombre faces turned towards the west, where
the white flag flew on the ramparts. Heavier, denser, more
suffocating grew the crush; an ambulance broke down, a caisson
smashed into a lamp-post, a cuirassier's horse slipped in the
greasy depths of the filth, pitching its steel-clad rider to the
pavement. Through the Place d'Alsace-Lorraine, through the Avenue
du Collège and the Place d'Armes, passed the turbulent torrent of
men and horses and cannon. The Grande Rue was choked from the
church to the bronze statue in the Place Turenne; the Porte de
Paris was piled with dead, the Porte de Balan tottered a mass of
ruins.
The cannonade still shook the hills to the south in spite of the
white flag on the citadel. There were white flags, too, on the
ramparts, on the Port des Capucins, and at the Gate of Paris. An
officer, followed by a lancer, who carried a white pennon on his
lance-point, entered the street from the north. A dozen soldiers
and officers hacked it off with their sabres, crying, "No
surrender! no surrender!" Shells continued to fall into the
packed streets, blowing horrible gaps in the masses of struggling
men. The sun set in a crimson blaze, reflecting on window and
roof and the bloody waters of the river. When at last it sank
behind the smoky hills, the blackness in the city was lighted by
lurid flames from burning houses and the swift crimson glare of
Prussian shells, still plunging into the town. Through the crash
of crumbling walls, the hiss and explosion of falling shells, the
awful clamour and din in the streets, the town clock struck
solemnly six times. As if at a signal the firing died away; a
desolate silence fell over the city--a silence full of rumours,
of strange movements--a stillness pulsating with the death gasps
of a nation.
Out on the heights of La Moncelle, of Daigny, and Givonne
lanterns glimmered where the good Sisters of Mercy and the
ambulance corps passed among the dead and dying--the thirty-five
thousand dead and dying! The plateau of Illy, where the cavalry
had charged again and again, was twinkling with thousands of
lanterns; on the heights of Frénois Prussian torches swung,
signalling victory.
But the spectacle in the interior of the town--a town of nineteen
thousand people, into which now were crushed seventy thousand
frantic soldiers, was dreadful beyond description. Horror
multiplied on horror. The two bridges and the streets were so
jammed with horses and artillery trains that it seemed impossible
for any human being to move another inch. In the glare of the
flames from the houses on fire, in the middle of the smoke,
horses, cannon, fourgons, charrettes, ambulances, piles of dead
and dying, formed a sickening pell-mell. In this chaos starving
soldiers, holding lighted lanterns, tore strips of flesh from
dead horses lying in the mud, killed by the shells. Arms, broken
and foul with blood and mud--rifles, pistols, sabres, lances,
casques, mitrailleuses--covered the pavements.
The gates of the town were closed; the water in the fortification
moats reflected the red light from the flames. The glacis of the
ramparts was covered by black masses of soldiers, watching the
placing of a cordon of German sentinels around the walls.
All public buildings, all the churches, were choked with wounded;
their blood covered everything. On the steps of the churches poor
wretches sat bandaging their torn limbs with strips of bloody
muslin.
Strange sounds came from the stone walls along the street, where
zouaves, turcos, and line soldiers, cursing and weeping with
rage, were smashing their rifles to pieces rather than surrender
them. Artillerymen were spiking their guns, some ran them into
the river, some hammered the mitrailleuses out of shape with
pickaxes. The cavalry flung their sabres into the river, the
cuirassiers threw away revolvers and helmets. Everywhere
officers were breaking their swords and cursing the surrender.
The officers of the 74th of the Line threw their sabres and even
their decorations into the Meuse. Everywhere, too, regiments were
burning their colours and destroying their eagles; the colonel of
the 52d of the Line himself burned his colours in the presence of
all the officers of the regiment, in the centre of the street.
The 88th and 30th, the 68th, the 78th, and 74th regiments
followed this example. "Mort aux Vaches!" howled a herd of
half-crazed reservists, bursting into the crush. "Mort aux
Prussiens! À la lanterne, Badinguet! Vive la République!"
Jack turned away from the window. The tall Sister of Mercy stood
beside the bed where Lorraine lay.
Jack made a sign.
"She is asleep," murmured the Sister; "you may come nearer now.
Close the window."
Before he could reach the bed the door was opened violently from
without, and an officer entered swinging a lantern. He did not
see Lorraine at first, but held the door open, saying to Jack:
"Pardon, monsieur; this house is reserved. I am very sorry to
trouble you."
Another officer entered, an old man, covered to the eyes by his
crimson gold-brocaded cap. Two more followed.
"There is a sick person here," said Jack. "You cannot have the
intention of turning her out! It is inhuman--"
He stopped short, stupefied at the sight of the old officer, who
now stood bareheaded in the lantern-light, looking at the bed
where Lorraine lay. It was the Emperor!--her father.
Slowly the Emperor advanced to the bed, his dreary eyes fixed on
Lorraine's pale cheeks.
In the silence the cries from the street outside rose clear and
distinct:
"Vive la République! À bas l'Empereur!"
The Emperor spoke, looking straight at Lorraine: "Gentlemen, we
cannot disturb a woman. Pray find another house."
After a moment the officers began to back out, one by one,
through the doorway. The Emperor still stood by the bed, his
vague, inscrutable eyes fixed on Lorraine.
Jack moved towards the bed, trembling. The Emperor raised his
colourless face.
"Monsieur--your sister? No--your wife?"
"My promised wife, sire," muttered Jack, cold with fear.
"A child," said the Emperor, softly.
With a vague gesture he stepped nearer, smoothed the coverlet,
bent closer, and touched the sleeping girl's forehead with his
lips. Then he stood up, gray-faced, impassive.
"I am an old man," he said, as though to himself. He looked at
Jack, who now came close to him, holding out something in one
hand. It was the steel box.
"For me, monsieur?" asked the Emperor.
Jack nodded. He could not speak.
The Emperor took the box, still looking at Jack.
There was a moment's silence, then Jack spoke: "It may be too
late. It is a plan of a balloon--we brought it to you from
Lorraine--"
The uproar in the streets drowned his voice--"Mort à l'Empereur!
À bas l'Empire!"
A staff-officer opened the door and peered in; the Emperor
stepped to the threshold.
"I thank you--I thank you both, my children," he said. His eyes
wandered again towards the bed; the cries in the street rang out
furiously.
"Mort à l'Empereur!"
The Sister of Mercy was kneeling by the bed; Jack shivered, and
dropped his head.
When he looked up the Emperor had gone.
All night long he watched at the bedside, leaning on his elbow,
one hand shading his eyes from the candle-flame. The Sister of
Mercy, white and worn with the duties of that terrible day, slept
upright in an arm-chair.
Dawn brought the sad notes of Prussian trumpets from the ramparts
pealing through the devastated city; at sunrise the pavements
rang and shook with the trample of the White Cuirassiers. A Saxon
infantry band burst into the "Wacht am Rhine" at the Paris Gate;
the Place Turenne vomited Uhlans. Jack sank down by the bed,
burying his face in the sheets.
The Sister of Mercy rubbed her eyes and started up. She touched
Jack on the shoulder.
"I am going to be very ill," he said, raising a face burning with
fever. "Never mind me, but stay with her."
"I understand," said the Sister, gently. "You must lie in the
room beyond."
The fever seized Jack with a swiftness incredible.
"Then--swear it--by the--by the Saviour there--there on your
crucifix!" he muttered.
"I swear," she answered, softly.
His mind wandered a little, but he set his teeth and rose,
staggering to the table. He wrote something on a bit of paper
with shaking fingers.
"Send for them," he said. "You can telegraph now. They are in
Brussels--my sister--my family--"
Then, blinded by the raging fever, he made his way uncertainly to
the bed, groped for Lorraine's hand, pressed it, and lay down at
her feet.
"Call the surgeon!" he gasped.
And it was very many days before he said anything else with as
much sense in it.
"God help them!" cried the Sister of Mercy, tearfully, her thin
hands clasped to her lips. Alone she guided Jack into the room
beyond.
Outside the Prussian bands were playing. The sun flung a long,
golden beam through the window straight across Lorraine's breast.
She stirred, and murmured in her sleep, "Jack! Jack! 'Tiens ta
Foy!'"
But Jack was past hearing now; and when, at sundown, the young
surgeon came into his room he was nearly past all aid.
"Typhoid?" asked the Sister.
"The Pest!" said the surgeon, gravely.
The Sister started a little.
"I will stay," she murmured. "Send this despatch when you go out.
Can he live?"
They whispered together a moment, stepping softly to the door of
the room where Lorraine lay.
"It can't be helped now," said the surgeon, looking at Lorraine;
"she'll be well enough by to-morrow; she must stay with you. The
chances are that he will die."
The trample of the White Cuirassiers in the street outside filled
the room; the serried squadrons thundered past, steel ringing on
steel, horses neighing, trumpets sounding the "Royal March."
Lorraine's eyes unclosed.
"Jack!"
There was no answer.
The surgeon whispered to the Sister of Mercy: "Don't forget to
hang out the pest flag."
"Jack! Jack!" wailed Lorraine, sitting up in bed. Through the
tangled masses of her heavy hair, gilded by the morning sunshine,
her eyes, bright with fever, roamed around the room, startled,
despairing. Under the window the White Cuirassiers were singing
as they rode:
    "Flieg', Adler, flieg'! Wir stürmen nach,
    Ein einig Volk in Waffen,
    Wir stürmen nach ob tausendfach
    Des Todes Pforten Klaffen!
    Und fallen wir, flieg', Adler, flieg'!
    Aus unserm Blute mächst der Sieg!
        Vorwärts!
      Flieg', Adler, flieg'!
        Victoria!
        Victoria!
      Mit uns ist Gott!"
Terrified, turning her head from side to side, Lorraine stretched
out her hands. She tried to speak, but her ears were filled with
the deep voices shouting the splendid battle-hymn--
    "Fly, Eagle! fly!
    With us is God!"
She crept out of bed, her bare feet white with cold, her bare
arms flushed and burning. Blinded by the blaze of the rising sun,
she felt her way around the room, calling, "Jack! Jack!" The
window was open; she crept to it. The street was a surging,
scintillating torrent of steel.
    "God with us!"
The White Cuirassiers shook their glittering sabres; the
melancholy trumpet's blast swept skyward; the standards flapped.
Suddenly the stony street trembled with the outcrash of drums;
the cuirassiers halted, the steel-mailed squadrons parted right
and left; a carriage drove at a gallop through the opened ranks.
Lorraine leaned from the window; the officer in the carriage
looked up.
As the fallen Emperor's eyes met Lorraine's, she stretched out
both little bare arms and cried: "Vive la France!"--and he was
gone to his captivity, the White Cuirassiers galloping on every
side.
The Sister of Mercy opened the door behind, calling her.
"He is dying," she said. "He is in here. Come quickly!"
Lorraine turned her head. Her eyes were sweet and serene, her
whole pale face transfigured.
"He will live," she said. "I am here."
"It is the pest!" muttered the Sister.
Lorraine glided into the hall and unclosed the door of the silent
room.
He opened his eyes.
"There is no death!" she whispered, her face against his. "There
is neither death nor sorrow nor dying."
The clamour in the street died out; the wind was still; the pest
flag under the window hung motionless.
He sighed; his eyes closed.
She stretched out beside him, her body against his, her bare arms
around his neck.
His heart fluttered; stopped; fluttered; was silent; moved once
again; ceased.
"Jack!"
Again his heart stirred--or was it her own?
When the morning sun broke over the ramparts of Sedan she fell
asleep in his arms, lulled by the pulsations of his heart.
XXXI
THE PROPHECY OF LORRAINE
When the Vicomte and Madame de Morteyn arrived in Sedan from
Brussels the last of the French prisoners had been gone a week;
the foul city was swept clean; the corpse-choked river no longer
flung its dead across the shallows of the island of Glaires; the
canal was untroubled by the ghastly freight of death that had
collected like logs on a boom below the village of Iges.
All day the tramp of Prussian patrols echoed along the stony
streets; all day the sinister outburst of the hoarse Bavarian
bugles woke the echoes behind the ramparts. Red Cross flags
drooped in the sunshine from churches, from banks, from every
barrack, every depot, every public building. The pest flags waved
gaily over the Asylum and the little Museum. A few appeared along
the Avenue Philippoteaux, others still fluttered on the Gothic
church and the convent across the Viaduc de Torcy. Three miles
away the ruins of the village of Bazeilles lay in the bright
September sunshine. Bavarian soldiers in greasy corvée lumbered
among the charred chaos searching for their dead.
The plain of Illy, the heights of La Moncelle, Daigny, Givonne,
and Frénois were vast cemeteries. Dredging was going on along the
river, whither the curious small boys of Sedan betook themselves
and stayed from morning till night watching the recovering of
rusty sabres, bayonets, rifles, cannon, and often more grewsome
flotsam. It was probably the latter that drew the small boys like
flies; neither the one nor the other are easily glutted with
horrors.
The silver trumpets of the Saxon Riders were chorusing the noon
call from the Porte de Paris when a long train crept into the
Sedan station and pulled up in the sunshine, surrounded by a
cordon of Hanover Riflemen. One by one the passengers passed into
the station, where passports were shown and apathetic commissaires
took charge of the baggage.
There were no hacks, no conveyances of any kind, so the tall,
white-bearded gentleman in black, who stood waiting anxiously for
his passport, gave his arm to an old lady, heavily veiled, and
bowed down with the sudden age that great grief brings. Beside
her walked a young girl, also in deep mourning.
A man on crutches directed them to the Place Turenne, hobbling
after them to murmur his thanks for the piece of silver the girl
slipped into his hands.
"The number on the house is 31," he repeated; "the pest flag is
no longer outside."
"The pest?" murmured the old man under his breath.
At that moment a young girl came out of the crowded station,
looking around her anxiously.
"Lorraine!" cried the white-haired man.
She was in his arms before he could move. Madame de Morteyn clung
to her, too, sobbing convulsively; Dorothy hid her face in her
black-edged handkerchief.
After a moment Lorraine stepped back, drying her sweet eyes.
Dorothy kissed her again and again.
"I--I don't see why we should cry," said Lorraine, while the
tears ran down her flushed cheeks. "If he had died it would have
been different."
After a silence she said again:
"You will see. We are not unhappy--Jack and I. Monsieur Grahame
came yesterday with Rickerl, who is doing very well."
"Rickerl here, too?" whispered Dorothy.
Lorraine slipped an arm through hers, looking back at the old
people.
"Come," she said, serenely, "Jack is able to sit up." Then in
Dorothy's ear she whispered, "I dare not tell them--you must."
"Dare not tell them--"
"That--that I married Jack--this morning."
The girls' arms pressed each other.
German officers passed and repassed, rigid, supercilious, staring
at the young girls with that half-sneering, half-impudent,
near-sighted gaze peculiar to the breed. Their insolent eyes,
however, dropped before the clear, mild glance of the old
