wonderful land of Ophir was the magic ring that one had only to rub, if
he could get hold of it, and work wonders.
But the little girl went on her quiet way. They were finding friends in
the new neighbourhood; yet Daisy Jasper could not be superseded. Every
letter was carefully treasured; and, oh, how many things she found to
say in return.
They kept up the intimacy with the Deans, though Josephine seemed almost
a young woman. Mr. Reed enjoyed the pleasant home wonderfully. Charles
spent much of his leisure over music, of which he was passionately fond.
He and Jim were not so intimate. Jim was going with a gayer lot of young
fellows, while Charles was seriously considering his life-plans.
CHAPTER XIV
AMONG GREAT THINGS
Were people more enthusiastic in old New York than they are at the end
of the century? We have done so much, we have had so many wonderful
happenings since then. To be sure, Dickens had been over and made,
people thought, a somewhat caustic return for the hospitable welcome;
Harriet Martineau had made a tour, and gone home rather favourably
impressed; and the winter before the intellectual circle--and it was
getting to be quite notable--had honoured the Swedish novelist,
Frederica Bremer, and been really charmed by her unaffected sweetness.
If they were not quite ready to take up her theories for the advancement
of women, they fell to reading the delightful "Neighbours" and "Home."
And now there was to be another visitant, "The Swedish Nightingale."
For Mr. Barnum was still the prince of entertainers. Theatres waxed and
waned, and new stars came to the front who had still their laurels to
win; people strove for cards to the Steven's Terrace, just back of
Columbia College on Park Place. Bleecker Street was not out of date,
though Mrs. Hamilton Fish had gone up to Stuyvesant Square, and was
gathering about her a political clique. There were card-parties and
dances; there were Christy's Minstrels and the Hutchinson family; and
some of the more intellectual circles had conversaziones where the best
talent displayed itself. Still, Barnum could not be crowded out. No
sarcasm withered him; and his variety was infinite. It was a safe place
for mothers to go and take their children. The men had formed several
ambitious clubs, and were beginning to entertain themselves.
Jenny Lind had already captivated Europe. Mr. Barnum judiciously brought
interest up to fever heat. After the bargain was made known, and the
young singer had taken her passage with her suite, a musical rage
pervaded the very city. The streets leading to the wharf were thronged
by crowds in the wildest enthusiasm. Triumphal arches were built across
Canal Street, and as she came down the gang-plank of the steamer, shouts
rent the very air.
The young traveller and poet, Bayard Taylor, had captured the prize
offered for the finest ode to be sung at her first concert. Two hundred
dollars seemed a large price at that time, as Tennyson had not been
offered a thousand for a poem. So great was the inquiry for tickets,
that they were sold at auction a few days previous. And Mr. Genin, a
Broadway hatter, signalised himself by making the highest bid for a
ticket,--two hundred and twenty-five dollars. Over one thousand tickets
were sold on the first day.
The concert was to be at Castle Garden. At five, the doors were opened,
and people began to throng in, though each seat had been secured to its
proper owner; and by eight, the audience was in a perfect transport of
expectation. It was said to be the largest audience assembled to listen
to her. And when she was led on the stage by her manager, the enthusiasm
was beyond description. It seemed to divine beforehand that the
fair-haired Swedish songstress would meet all expectations; and she
passed beyond it.
Ben had been caught by the enthusiasm, and squandered his savings on a
ticket. He and Jim had been in the crowd around the hotel, that first
night when the New York musical society had serenaded her, and she had
bowed from the old stone balcony to the admiring crowds.
"There isn't any word to express it," declared Ben, at the
breakfast-table the next morning. "Joe, you must hear her, and
Hanny--all of you. Never mind the cost."
"Ben, you have lost your senses," said his mother, with a touch of her
old sharpness. "As if we were all millionaires! And I have heard people
sing before."
"Not anything like that. You can't imagine such melody. And the
enthusiasm of the crowd is worth something!"
The little girl looked up wistfully. She was beginning to understand the
value of money.
"Yes," returned Joe; "Hanny must hear her. I wouldn't have her miss it
for anything. But the tickets won't be so high after a little."
They dropped to regular prices, but that was high for the times; and the
rush continued unabated. New York broke out in a Jenny Lind furore.
There were gloves, and hats, and shawls, and gowns, beautiful little
tables, and consoles, and furniture of all sorts that bore her name. The
bakers made Jenny Lind cake. What a time there was! Enthusiastic adorers
took her carriage from its shafts, and dragged it from Castle Garden to
the hotel. Was New York old in those days? Rather, it was the glowing,
fervid impetuosity of early youth.
And the serenade, when Broadway was jammed for blocks, and lighted by
torches in the street, and illuminations in the houses and stores. There
was a wonderful cornetist, Koenig, who could have won another Eurydice
from the shades with his playing. Out on the balcony he stood and moved
the crowd with his melody. Then she came out beside him, and, in the
hush, a thousand times more appreciative than the wildest applause, the
magnificent voice sang to its large, free audience, "Home, Sweet Home,"
as no one will ever hear it sung again. That alone would be fame enough
for any writer of song!
The furore did not abate. But they must all go,--Stephen and Dolly,
Margaret and her husband, Joe and the little girl, and her father.
"It is nonsense for an old fellow like me," he declared, half
humourously.
"But I shall like it so much better, and then we can talk it over
afterward. That's half the pleasure."
She looked so wistful out of her soft eyes, and patted his hand with her
caressing little fingers, of course he couldn't say No.
It was so much harder to persuade Mrs. Underhill. "It certainly was
wicked to spend so much money just to hear one woman sing. She had heard
the 'Messiah,' with Madame Anna Bishop in it; and she never again
expected to hear anything so beautiful this side of heaven."
They carried the day, however, in spite of her objections. Castle Garden
looked like fairyland, with its brilliant lights, its hundred ushers in
white gloves and rosettes, their wands tipped with ribbon as if for some
grand ball. The quiet was awe-inspiring. One did not even want to
whisper to his neighbour, but just sit in fascinated silence and wonder
what it would be like.
Then Jenny Lind was led on the stage, and the entire audience rose with
one vast, deafening cheer,--a magnificent one, as hearty as on her first
night. It seemed as if they would never stop. There was a cloud of
waving handkerchiefs, shaking out fragrance in the air.
A simple Swedish maiden in her gown of soft, white silk, with no blaze
of diamonds, and just one rose low down in her banded hair, only her
gracious sweetness and simplicity, a thousand times finer and more
effective than flashing beauty. She has heard the applause many a time
before, in audiences of crowned heads; and this from the multitude is
just as sweet.
When all is listening, attentive silence, she begins "Casta Diva." "Hark
to the voice," and every one listens with such intensity that the
magnificent sound swells out and fills the farthest space. There is no
striving for effect. A woman singing with a God-given voice, in simple
thanks for its ownership, not a queen bidding for admiration. Had any
voice ever made such glorious melody, or so stirred human souls?
The applause has in it an immensity of appreciation, as if it could
never get itself wholly expressed.
Then another favourite, which everybody sang at for years afterward: "I
dreamt I dwelt in marble halls." In some of the sorrows of her
womanhood, the little girl was to recall the sweet refrain--
    "That you loved me still the same."
Then "Comin' thro' the Rye," with a lilt and dainty deliciousness that
one never can forget. But "Home, Sweet Home," moves to tears and
enthusiasm. Surely, no voice ever put such pathos, such marvellous
sweetness, into it!
And sometimes now, when the little girl looks over to the other country,
one of the many joys she thinks will be hearing such blessed voices as
Jenny Lind's and Parepa Rosa's. You could not shake her faith in
immortality and all these precious joys to come.
She was quite a heroine at school for many days to come. People did not
think it worth while to spend so much money on children at that time.
Margaret and her mother had compromised on the school question, or
rather Margaret had yielded.
Hanny would graduate at the end of the year. Margaret preferred a
stylish boarding-school after that. The Hoffmans were quite in the swim
of that period. The Doctor's connections, and Margaret's beauty, made
them welcome in circles that were beginning to grow a little exclusive,
and demand grandfathers for vouchers. There was a little talk, even
then, about nouveaux riches; but, after all, no one seemed to
absolutely despise wealth.
Margaret was really very ambitious for the younger members of the
family. Jim, with his good looks and the brightness that was akin to
wit, was her favourite. Then he took naturally to elegance.
Dolly was very happy and jolly with her husband and children. They lived
in a very pleasant manner; and society courted Dolly as well. Stephen
was prospering wonderfully, and had a fine standing among business-men.
Hanny was extravagantly fond of the children. Stevie called her Auntie
Nan, now; but Annie said simply Nan. Margaret had adopted it as well.
Hannah was rather awkward and old-fashioned. Even Ben sometimes
warbled,--
    "Nannie, wilt thou gang wi' me?"
She had another great and unexpected treat a few weeks later. She had
gone on Friday to make a real visit at Dolly's, and go from there to
school on Monday morning. And, fortunately for her, she had taken her
best Sunday frock, which she was wearing a good deal lest she might
outgrow it.
And who should drop in but Delia Whitney. Whether Dolly suspected all
was not clear sailing for the young people, no one could have told from
her friendly manner. She had taken quite a liking to Delia, and was much
interested in her success.
They talked over the Jenny Lind concert. Delia had attended two. She was
going about quite a good deal among literary people.
"And to-morrow night, The. and I are going to take Ben to the Osgoods.
Oh, Hanny, that's the author of the little song you sing:--
    "'I love you, I adore you; but
    I'm talking in my sleep.'
And she's just lovely."
"Oh," cried Hanny, "I should like to see her, truly. You know I told you
about seeing her in the carriage when she went up to Mr. Poe's."
"Well, can't you go? The. has a standing invitation to bring friends.
Why, Nora has gone! She sang up there one evening, and did wonderfully
well. Her teacher thinks in a year or two she can try concerts; only it
isn't best to strain her voice now. And you may see some famous people,
and some yet to be famous, myself among them."
"Oh, I don't care about the others," said Hanny, naïvely. "And if you
are quite sure--Dolly, ought I to go?"
"Why not?" answered Dolly. "It's fortunate that you brought your best
frock; though we could have sent for it. Why, yes, if you would like
to."
Hanny drew a long breath. Twice of late her mother had found excuses
when she had asked to go down to Beach Street. She, too, had a vague
feeling there was something in the air; but her simple nature was not
suspicious. And it wasn't like going to the Whitney's. She couldn't do
such a thing without asking permission.
Delia finished her call, kissed the babies and Hanny, and said they
would all be up at eight, sharp.
"I'll have Hanny in apple-pie order," answered Dolly, with her bright
smile.
Stephen was delightful in his family; and he had the same odd little
look in his eye as her father, suggestive of fun. He was teaching her to
play checkers; and, although Dolly helped sometimes, she found it hard
work to beat him. Dolly sat by embroidering.
The next morning they drove down-town and did some shopping, and called
on Annette, who made them stay to luncheon. Mrs. Beekman was quite
poorly now, and had grown very, very stout. She said, "she had lost all
her ambition. It was a great thing to be young, and have all your life
before you."
It was so delightful; and Dolly was sure they wouldn't have many more
such Indian summery days, so they went over to Washington Parade-ground,
where the style promenaded on Saturday afternoon. Hanny wore her best
dress and a pretty cloth cape trimmed with a little edge of fur. They
took Stevie, who was delighted of course, and who ran about, very proud
of his new jacket and trousers.
Many of the promenaders nodded to young Mrs. Stephen Underhill. Belles
and beaux went by; prettily dressed children; stylish little boys, who
carried canes, and had long tassels drooping over one side of their
caps. Hanny enjoyed it all very much.
Then after supper, Dolly put a fine lace tucker over the edging at the
neck of her frock, and found a blue sash, and curled her hair so as to
make it all wavy at the edge of her forehead; and there was a very
sweet, attractive girl, if she wasn't a beauty.
Mr. Theodore Whitney seemed very much amused and pleased, and politely
inquired if he might be Miss Underhill's escort. Delia looked unusually
nice in her new brown silk and some beautiful old lace Aunt Clem had
given her.
People did not wait until ten o'clock for "functions" to begin; neither
did they give them that uneuphonious name. Hanny had read and heard a
good deal since her first visit to genius in the plain, poor, little
cottage; and this certainly had more of the true aspect one connects
with poesy. The two rooms were daintily furnished; pictures everywhere.
Mr. Osgood was a painter, and his portraits were quite celebrated. The
curtains fell with a graceful sweep. The light brocade of the chairs
threw out glisteny shades; the little tables set about held books and
engravings, and great portfolios leaned against the wall. There was a
case of choicely-bound books, and an open piano. Flowers were in vases
on brackets, and low, quaint china bowls. It was like a lovely picture
to the little girl; but she felt afraid of the people talking so
earnestly, and wondered if they were all poets and authors.
The party greeted their hostess, and Hanny was introduced. Was it the
glamour of the summer and the blue gown that had made Mrs. Osgood so
lovely sitting there in the carriage? Now she was thin, and her hair was
banded down in the fashion of the day; then it had been flying in
ringlets. Her gown was black silk, and that made her look rather grave;
but when she smiled, all the old sweetness was there. Hanny knew her
then.
Delia took charge of Hanny, and seated her by a table with a book of
choice engravings. Ben had found some one he knew, and Mr. Whitney had
gone to talk to General Morris. A tall young lady came over and began
complimenting Miss Whitney on her story in Godey's, and Delia flushed up
with pleasure. Then she begged to introduce her to a friend. She wrote
verses only, and her friend had composed music for them.
Hanny kept watching her hostess. She knew some of the guests, from
having had them pointed out to her in the street. There was Mr. Greeley,
thin of face and careless of attire in those early days. In the street
he could always be told by a shaggy light coat that he wore.
A very sweet-looking elderly lady came up presently and spoke to Delia,
who was in full flow of eager talk with the young musical composer.
"Isn't that your sister, or your niece,--the one who sang here some time
ago? I saw her come in with Mr. Whitney."
"Oh, no," returned Delia. "But she is a very dear friend,--Mr.
Underhill's sister."
"Mr. Stephen Underhill?"
"Yes, she is his sister; but it is Mr. Ben Underhill who is here."
"I know Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Underhill very well. She was a Beekman. And
Dr. Hoffman's wife belongs to the family."
Delia turned and introduced Mrs. Kirtland.
She had such an attractive face, framed in with rows of snowy puffs,
quite gone out of date, but becoming to her nevertheless.
"I feel that I almost know you," she said sweetly, "though I half
mistook you for Miss Whitney; but she is dark, and you are fair, so I
ought not to have made the blunder. I know your brother Stephen and his
wife."
"Oh!" Hanny gave it a glad little sound, and smiled, as she put out her
small hand.
Mrs. Kirtland took the unoccupied seat.
"I suppose you have hardly begun life, you look so young. But no doubt
you are a genius of some sort. Mrs. Osgood is so extraordinarily good to
young geniuses."
"No, I haven't any genius," and Hanny flushed, as she gave a beguiling
smile that lighted up her face. "And though there are a good many of
us, we have not even a family genius."
"That depends upon whether you restrict the word to painting a picture
or writing a poem or a story. Mr. Stephen Underhill is very highly
spoken of as one of the promising young business-men. And is it your
brother who was in the office of old Dr. Fitch, and in the hospital?"
"Yes, ma'am," returned Hanny, with a glow of pleasure. Young people were
still expected to say "Yes, sir," and "Yes, ma'am," to their elders, out
of respect.
"That does very well for one family, though the Whitneys seem to have a
good share. Miss Delia is quite a success, I hear. And we always find
Mr. Whitney very entertaining. Have you known them long?"
"Oh, for years, seven almost. And we used to be neighbours."
"A friendship is said to be certain when you have held it seven years.
Have you met Mrs. Osgood before?"
"No, ma'am; but I saw her quite a long while ago at Fordham."
"At Fordham! Then you must have known the poet Edgar Allan Poe."
"A little," returned Hanny, timidly.
"There's such a romance to his life at that place,--his lovely young
wife dying, and the devotion of Mrs. Clemm. Oh, tell me about your
episode!"
Hanny told the story, very simply, charmingly as well.
"Oh," exclaimed Mrs. Kirtland, "Frances must hear that!" Then she
glanced around. Mrs. Osgood was no longer receiving guests, but mingling
with the company. Some one was going to the piano; and everybody
listened to an exquisite voice singing a beautiful Italian melody. When
that was finished, a young man who was to be famous in after years read
a sweet, simple poem that touched every one's heart. Then the talk began
in little groups again.
Mrs. Kirtland signalled to her hostess, who came over to them.
"Frances," she said, "here is a youthful worshipper who remembers you as
a lovely lady all in cerulean blue, and with long curls, going up to the
Poe cottage. See how you have lived in the child's memory. And she sings
a song of yours."
Hanny's face was scarlet for a moment; but Mrs. Osgood sat down beside
her, and they talked of the poet and Mrs. Clemm, and touched lightly
upon the sad after-happenings. He had at one time been a frequent guest.
There was even yet a deep interest in him, though opinion was sharply
divided. And Mrs. Osgood had known the beautiful Virginia, whose sad
fate even then was hardly realised. They talked a little about "Annabel
Lee" and the "high-born kinsman;" and Hanny thought she had a delightful
time.
There was coffee and chocolate and lemonade, with plates of dainty cakes
and confectionery, in an ante-room. Then a gentleman sang a
hunting-song in a fine tenor voice; and another paper on Art was read.
If people came early, they also dispersed at a reasonable hour. It was
not quite ten when Delia, Hanny, and Ben made their adieus to the
hostess, who stooped and kissed Hanny for "old remembrance' sake," she
said.
Mr. Whitney was going down with some of the older men. Ben saw his
little sister safe in Stephen's hands, and then went on with Delia.
"I've had such a splendid time!" exclaimed Hanny. "I wouldn't have
missed it for the world."
When she told the home-folks about it, her mother made no comment; but
Joe and her father were very much interested. And when, not long after
that, "the high-born kinsman" came for the charming woman who had given
much pleasure in her brief way through the world, and who had not
disdained to write a verse and her name in many a society album, Hanny
felt quite as if she had lost a dear friend.
Two other poets, sisters, Alice and Ph[oe]be Cary, came to New York, and
held receptions that were quite famous as time went on. To be sure,
there was the old name of blue-stocking applied to them now and then;
for people, women especially, were taking a wider interest in other
affairs beside literature, prefiguring the new woman. Miss Delia Whitney
was very much interested. They were not quite up to clubs in those days,
or she would have been a charter-member.
But the child Hanny had enough to do to study her lessons, practise her
music, and make her visits, with a little sewing in between. She did
make her father a set of shirts; but underclothing of all kinds was
being manufactured; and though the older-fashioned women sneered at it,
as rather poor stuff, the men seemed to like it. At gentlemen's
furnishing stores, you could buy shirts cut and made in the latest
style, the neckbands of which always seemed to fit, or else the men
discreetly refrained from grumbling when they had spent so much money.
And women began to find it eased their burdens.
No one wanted home-knit stockings, the English and French and Germans
sent us such perfect ones. White was still all the style, unless you
wore black, or blossom-coloured silk. Of course there were common people
who put slate-colour on their children, because white made so much
washing. And as for pantalets, there were none left.
There were other people called away beside poets, and changes made in
families. Grandmother Underhill went to the country wherein the faithful
abide, and Aunt Katrina. Grandmother Van Kortlandt came to make her home
with her daughter. Aunt Crete and Cousin Joanna Morgan, and here and
there some of the old people, as well as the young, passed over the
narrow river.
But there seemed new babies all around. Dolly and Margaret had little
sons, and Cleanthe a daughter. John was quite jealous of Hanny's notice;
for his little girl was fair, and had light hair, and they were quite
sure it looked like her. John wanted to call her Hannah Ann.
"Oh, no," said Hanny; "there are so many beautiful names now!" Then she
laughed. "I shall not promise her a hundred dollars, nor my string of
gold beads. I am not sorry, for I have loved both grandmothers; and one
is gone--"
"Why don't we name her after her grandmothers?" exclaimed Cleanthe.
"One of hers is gone," and she sighed. "It seems such a long name for a
wee baby."
"Margaret Elizabeth,--it is a beautiful name," said Hanny, with delight.
"Mother will give her something, I know. And I will be her godmother,
and endow her for the Elizabeth."
"With all your worldly goods?" asked John.
"Not quite all--"
"You'll be impoverished, Hanny," interrupted John, with a glint of
humour. "Six nephews and nieces already! And there are four of us still
to marry, if George ever comes back. He hasn't made his fortune yet. He
was crazy to go. The good times here suit me well enough."
Grandmother Underhill put fifty dollars in the bank for the new baby,
and gave it a silver spoon. Hanny gave her a silver cup with her name
engraved on it, and, with Dolly's help, made her a beautiful christening
robe, which Cleanthe saved up for her, the sewing and tucking on it was
so exquisite. She used to show it to visitors with a great deal of
pride.
CHAPTER XV
THE BEGINNINGS OF ROMANCE
There was Saratoga and Newport; and Long Branch laid claim to some
distinction; even Cape May was not unknown to fame,--still the Jersey
coast, with all its magnificent possibilities, really had not been
discovered, and was rather contemptuously termed sand wastes. It was
getting to be quite the thing to go off awhile in the summer. Some of
the style had spent a "season" in London, and seen the young Queen and
the Prince Consort and the royal children, and gone over to Paris to see
"the nephew of his uncle," who was taking a hand in the new French
Republic.
But plain people still visited their relatives a good deal. Ben had
taken a holiday, and gone up to Tarrytown after Hanny; and they had made
pilgrimages along to different cousins. They sat on the old porch at
Fordham; but one of the cousins was married, and gone to her own home,
taken the tall, bright-eyed young man who had been about so much the
olden summer.
It was really a delightful walk over there. Ben was finding out odd
places for Delia, who was now interested in some Revolutionary sketches.
They had explored Kingsbridge; they had found Featherbed Lane; they
learned the Harlem River once had borne the Indian name of Umscoota.
Here, more than forty years before, Robert Macomb had built his dam, in
defiance of certain national laws, as he wanted a volume of water for
his mill.
Many and ineffectual were the efforts made to remove it by the
surrounding property-owners who had large and beautiful estates. For no
one dreamed then that the great city would sometime absorb everything,
and that here was to stand a beautiful bridge, the pride of the city.
But the old dam was one dark night assaulted by a "piratical craft,"
that demanded entrance, and, on being refused a right through the
waterway, demolished the old affair; and the freed and happy river went
on to the sea unvexed, and still kept Manhattan an island, to be bridged
over as convenience required.
Down in one of the pretty valleys was the home of Cousin Jennie, that
Hanny always connected with Mrs. Clemm and the poet. All about were
green fields and orchards, hills and valleys. Between them and the
Harlem lay a high wooded ridge from whose top you could see the Hudson,
and the Harlem was like a cord winding in and out of green valleys.
There was Fort George and Harlem plains; and Hanny recalled the two old
Underhill ladies whose lives had reached back to Revolutionary times.
They rambled about the historic ground, peaceful enough then. There was
the old Poole house, the De Voe house, and further up the Morris
mansion. What names they recalled!--Washington, Rochambeau, the Hessian
General Knyphausen.
And then Cousin Jennie's husband pointed out a place with a romantic
story. When the Hessian Army had swept on in the steps of General
Washington's retreating men, they had been encamped for some time,
foraging about for food and demanding supplies of the farmers,--an
ill-fed, and ill-clothed set of conscripts, without much enthusiasm,
many of them torn from home and friends, neither knowing nor caring
about the land where they had gone to fight, and perhaps lay their
bones.
Among them a young fellow, Anthony Woolf by name, whose mother, in a
district in distant Germany, had yielded to the blandishments of a
second husband, thus rendering her son liable to conscription, as he was
no longer her sole protector. Young Anthony knew his stepfather grudged
him the broad acres of his patrimony, and guessed whose influence had
sent the press-gang one night, and hurried him off, without even a
good-bye to his mother, to the nearest seaport town, and there embarked
him for a perilous ocean-journey, to fight against people struggling for
their liberty.
He had fought, like many of the others, under a sort of rebellious
protest. Several had deserted: some joining the American army from
sympathy. But Anthony was sick of carnage and marching and
semi-starvation. Winter was coming on. So, one night, he stole out
unperceived, and hurried down to the river's edge. On the other side,
at some distance, he could see a faint gleam of light between the
leafless trees. He had watched it longingly. There were many kindly
disposed people who gave shelter to deserters. He threw off his heavy
coat, and his boots, with the soles worn through, and made a plunge. The
water was cold, the way longer than it looked; but he buffeted across
and crawled out in the autumn blast, dripping and shivering, and ran up
to the kitchen steps, that looked more friendly than the great wide
porch and stately doorway. The maids were frightened, and a man came, to
whom he told his story in broken English, and was taken in, warmed and
fed and clothed, and kept out of sight for several days.
In his gratitude and delight, he made himself useful. He had been
accustomed to farming and herds and flocks. The old Morris estate was
large; and when the British Army was safely out of the way, there was
work in plenty; and a faithful hand Anthony Woolf proved.
When the long summer days came the next year, there was no end of
spinning in the great house, where linen and woollen were made for the
family use. The farmers' daughters used to be eager for the chances; and
one day, when pretty Phebe Oakley's grandmother was going over to the
great house, as it was so often called, the young girl begged her to
speak a good word for her, as she could spin both wool and flax.
"They'll be glad to have you," said grandmother on her return. "But,
Phebe, they have a young Woolf over there; so look out he doesn't catch
you."
Phebe tossed her head. She was in no hurry to be caught. And yet it so
fell out that when Anthony Woolf had saved up a little money, and
negotiated for a farm over in the valley, he caught pretty Phebe Oakley,
and built a house for her, and prospered.
They looked at the place where the Hessian Army had been encamped, and
traced the course of the young fellow's daring swim. And here was the
old part of the house he had built, and where he had outlived his own
son, but left grandsons behind him, one of whom had married Cousin
Jennie. Grandmother was still alive,--a little, rather-faded, and
shrunken old lady who had once been pretty Phebe Oakley, who lived with
her daughter in the old part.
"There are lots of romances lying about unused," said Ben. "I should
like to have a story-teller's gift myself."
Hanny was so interested in young Mr. Woolf that she had to tell Joe all
the story when she came home; and he said they must go up the historic
Harlem some day. And he said Umscoota meant "Stream among the green
sedge."
This year it had to be Rutger's Institute for Hanny. There were a great
many new schools; but Dolly and Margaret carried the day. She thought at
first she shouldn't like it at all; but when she came to know the girls,
she began to feel quite at home, and, in some queer fashion, as if she
were growing up. But she didn't seem to grow very fast.
Ben came to his twenty-first birthday. He was a tall, well-grown young
fellow, and often surprised Jim by the amount of knowledge he possessed.
And then he went over to the "Tribune" office, and sometimes tried his
hand at queer, out-of-the-way bits of past lore that people were almost
forgetting. Just how it came about, he never clearly remembered himself;
but one night, when Delia had seemed unusually attractive to three or
four young men who haunted the place, he rose abruptly and said he must
go. There was a set look in his usually pleasant face, and he shut his
lips, as if something had displeased him.
Delia went to the hall door. As he turned, she caught his arm.
"What is it, Ben?" she said in a hurried whisper. "Something has
happened to vex you."
"Something!" with youthful bitterness. "We never have any good times any
more. There's always such a crowd--"
"Oh, Ben! Are you jealous? Why, you know I like you better than any of
them! Gordon only comes to get ideas; he's so very anxious to do
something in literature. As if I could help anybody!" and she laughed.
"The others come for fun. You're worth them all, Ben. Oh, don't go away
angry!" with a voice of tender pleading.
Ben felt suddenly foolish. Was he angry over such a trifle? Then he
glanced up in Delia's face; he was on the step below. What was there in
her eyes; and she had said she liked him better than any of them, even
that handsome Van Doren. Well, he was most jealous of Van Doren, who was
in his last year at Columbia, and whose father was rich and indulgent.
"Oh," he said with an indrawn breath, "you must know that I love you.
I've always loved you, I think."
She put her arms about his neck, and kissed him. It was very
reprehensible, I suppose. Young people were honestly friendly in those
days, and seldom had a chaperone; yet they did not play at love, unless
they were real flirts; and a flirt soon gained an unenviable reputation.
"Come down a ways with me," he entreated, with a little tremulous sound
in his voice that touched her.
The street was very quiet. He put his arm about her, and drew her close
to his side.
"Oh, it's cool out here, and you've no wrap!" He was suddenly very
careful of her. "But I wanted to say--it isn't only a like, but a love.
You do love me, Delia?"
"I love you, love you! I love you and yours."
"Of course we will have to wait. We are both young. But I'm doing a bit
of outside work, and have a chance to come up--"
"If we did marry, you'd have to come and live with me; for I have
promised Aunt Patty never to leave her. I haven't really thought about
marriage. There is so much to my life all the time. Oh, yes, we can
wait. But you must not feel afraid, Ben. I like fun and nonsense, and
plenty of people to talk to. I'm not sure I shall make a good wife,
even, though both of my sisters do."
"I want you, good or bad," said Ben, sturdily.
They both laughed, and then he kissed her again.
"Oh, you must go back! You'll get an awful cold."
"I never do take cold. I'll run like a flash. Come to-morrow night. Oh,
Ben!"
"Oh, Delia, my darling!"
Then she flew back. How long had she been gone? She re-entered the room
with a most nonchalant air; and in two minutes she had them all in a
whirl of conversation, even if they did look rather curious.
Ben sauntered up home. It was quite early. Hanny was upstairs reading to
grandmother, who went to bed at nine, and liked to have Hanny come in
and read to her. Joe sat in his office, poring over an abstruse medical
article. He glanced up and nodded.
"Joe," the lad began, with a bright flush that gave a certain tenderness
to his eyes, which were dewy sweet,--"Joe, listen a minute. I am engaged
to Delia Whitney,--just to-night. But I hate mean, underhand things. I
wanted some one to know it. And--shall I tell mother? Of course she
won't like it; though I don't see why."
"Ben, I don't believe I would just now. You are young, and you won't be
married under a year or two. No, I would wait a little. She may settle
to it presently," said the elder, thoughtfully.
"I don't want her to feel hurt. I'd just like to go and tell her, I am
so happy."
He looked so brave and manly that Joe was almost sorry not to send him.
But he did know that his mother objected to it strenuously, and might
say something that would cut Ben to the heart.
Latterly, he had been cherishing a vague belief that the affair would
end in a sort of a good comradeship.
"Thank you," Ben laid his hand on the elder's shoulder. "You are a dear
good brother, Joe. Don't you suppose you will ever marry? No one will be
quite good enough for you. You're a splendid fellow."
Joe went back to his book; but it had lost interest. Well--it was rather
queer. He had been made very welcome in several houses; and Margaret had
given delicate little suggestions. But he had never cared for any one.
He would be nine and twenty on his next birthday,--quite a bachelor.
It was somewhat curious; but Ben, who had never cared for fixing up,
though he was always clean, suddenly developed a new care for his cuffs
and collars, and indulged in light-coloured neckties, and gloves that he
could no longer "run and jump in," as Jim had accused him of doing. He
went out Sunday evening to tea, which was a new thing, though he often
stayed at the Whitneys' through the week. There was a certain air of
being of supreme consequence to some one; Mrs. Underhill rather resented
it.
Jim was very gay this winter. A good-looking young collegian who was
bright and full of fun, and could sing college glees in a fine tenor
voice, tell a capital story, and dance well, was not likely to go
begging.
One evening he stumbled over his old friend Lily Ludlow, whom he had not
seen for two years,--a tall, stylish girl, handsome in the ordinary
acceptation of the word, but lacking some of the finer qualities, if you
studied her closely. There had been some great changes in her life. Her
father had died suddenly, leaving but small provision for them. Chris
had her hands full trying to live pretentiously on a rather small
income.
They had found an elderly aunt of Mr. Ludlow's who, in her day, had been
quite a society woman. She had an old-fashioned but well furnished house
in Amity Street, and had not given up all her acquaintances. The house
was to go to her husband's family when she was done with it, there being
no children; and her income ended with her life, so there was nothing to
expect from her.
"But I do want a housekeeper and a nurse, sometimes," she said to
Mrs. Ludlow. "If you like to fill the place, you will have a good home
and good wages. And Lily's fine looks ought to get her a husband."
Amity Street still had a rather select air, if its fashion was falling
off a little. The house was old, but not out of date, and quite
imposing; and the big doorplate, with "Nicoll" on it, stamped it as
undeniably aristocratic, Miss Lily thought. She urged her mother to
accept it.
"I don't feel as if I could be at that queer old woman's beck and call.
I remember when we were first married she said some very mean things. My
family was quite as good as your father's, Lily. Neither of his brothers
amounted to much, though his sister married a rich Southerner and went
off to forget all her relatives. We've never asked anything of the
Ludlows, and I don't want to now."
"But it will only be for a year or two. Of course I shall marry; and
then you will have two homes."
"I'd a sight rather go with Chris. And if you could teach--seems to me
you might, with your education. And you have had two lovers already."
"Who couldn't take care of me. I am not going to marry that way. But, as
Aunt Nicoll says, 'We shall be sure of a good home.'"
Lily gained her point. Early in the preceding spring they had gone to
Amity Street. The spacious, old-fashioned parlours were a little out of
date, but had been elegant in their day. Lily laid off her mourning, and
fell heir to some handsome gowns that Chris helped her remodel. Mrs.
Nicoll was queer and bad-tempered; and the difficulty had been to keep
servants who would submit to such exactions. Matters went a little
smoother; but poor Mrs. Ludlow had to suffer.
Lily spent a month at Saratoga with Mrs. Nicoll and the maid. The old
lady was a good deal entertained by the airs and graces and bright ways
of her grand-niece. Lily made several conquests; but the desirable offer
of marriage was not forth-coming.
Mrs. Nicoll gave a reception early in the season,--a thing she always
did; and her friends attended with a certain kindly feeling that she was
old, and the duty might never be required of them again. Miss Lily made
quite an impression; and cards and invitations were left for her. And
when she attended a dance at the Apollo Rooms, the height of her
ambition was reached.
At a pretty private dance she met her school-day admirer again, and
tried her charms, which had increased notably since that youthful
period. She did dance beautifully, and had no lack of the small talk of
the day. Jim promised to call, and did so at an early date, rather
surprised at the solid elegance of the place. Lily expatiated skilfully
on dear old Aunt Nicoll, who would have mother come and stay with her;
since they were alone it seemed the best thing to do; and Aunt Nicoll
had no near relatives of her own. There were plenty of her husband's
family "hungry for what she had," said Lily, with a sort of sneer, as if
they might find themselves mistaken in the end.
Certainly, Jim thought, Lily had dropped in a clover-field. He found
that Mrs. Nicoll was considered a rich woman. Lily was handsomely
dressed, and no doubt she would be kindly remembered in the old lady's
will. Not that Jim was speculating on any part or lot in the matter. He
was too young; he would have his three years in the law school, and
after that, getting established.
Lily begged him to bring some of his friends. The house was lonely, with
no young people for companionship; and she raised her eyes in the old
pleading fashion that even now had quite an effect upon him.
Jim chose several young men that he associated with. Some of them had
sisters, who declared Miss Ludlow charming. She was not anxious now to
have any of the Underhills on her visiting-list; but she did mean to
make use of Jim. She had grown quite worldly-wise and experienced.
Two of Jim's friends were generously supplied with pocket-money. One was
a young Virginian, Mr. Weir, the other, Harry Gaynor, and both spent
lavishly. Flowers were costly then; and Lily was the recipient of many a
handsome bouquet. In return, she now and then gave a dainty supper,
simple to be sure, or a card-party, with some delightful confections,
and a little coffee or chocolate. Mrs. Nicoll always retired early, and
took some drops to make sure of sleeping the first part of the night, so
she was not easily disturbed.
Then there were stars at the theatres. Parodi was emulating Jenny Lind,
who had gone to Havana; and the houses were crowded, if the tickets were
not so high. It was so easy to spend money when an artful girl, with
softest voice and bewitching eyes, planned for you. And it was so easy
to borrow, when you had good friends.
Miss Lily looked carefully over her ground; Harry Gaynor was gay and
delightful, but one couldn't be quite sure he was not flirting. And
though Mr. Weir had plenty of money, there was a large family of
brothers and sisters, and they lived on an extensive plantation miles
away from any considerable town. There was a Mr. Lewis, not so young,
who had an interest in an old well-established leather firm that had
been left him by an uncle. There were some non-eligibles.
Mrs. Nicoll had said, in her caustic way:--
"You make the most of your time, Lily Ludlow. I'm past eighty, and you
may find me dead in my bed some morning. I have not a stiver to leave
any one; so don't you count on that. I can hardly pay my own way."
Still she had every luxury for herself; for years she had considered
nothing but her own wants and indulgences.
Poor Jim! In his young mannishness he was quite sure there was no danger
of falling in love; of course such a thing would be wildest folly. But
Lily was very fascinating and very flattering. She put it on the score
of old friendship; but, with a coquette's ardour, she did enjoy the
young fellow's struggles to keep himself on a firm footing. And when he
saw Gaynor's attentions, and listened to Weir's rhapsodies, a passion of
boyish jealousy sprang up in his heart.
Miss Lily kept her other admirers out of the way, except as she might
meet them at dances or whist parties. She was not much in love with Mr.
Lewis; he was slow and really conceited, and, for a young man, rather
careful of his money. If she only dared run the risk, and take Mr. Weir,
who was to finish his college course in the summer! And then arose a new
star on her horizon.
Mr. Williamson was forty and a widower; but he drove an elegant pair of
bays, belonged to a club, and had apartments at a hotel. She tried
captivating simplicity, and succeeded, to her great surprise, though she
knew his habits were not irreproachable. She had begged of Mr. Lewis a
little time for consideration, when one morning Mr. Williamson
astonished her by a call, and an offer of his hand and fortune.
Miss Ludlow did not show her amazement, neither did she jump at the
offer. She was very delicately surprised. Was he quite certain of his
wishes? And--it was so unexpected!
So certain indeed that he would bring her a ring that very afternoon,
and take her out driving,--a man of his years not to know his own mind!
She could hardly believe her good fortune. For a fortnight she
engineered her way skilfully, still keeping Mr. Lewis in reserve. And
then she was convinced, and dismissed him.
"Guess who is engaged?" Harry Gaynor cried, one morning. "I never was so
beat in my life! Jim, maybe this will hit you hard. Seems to me you've
been rather distraught of late and sighing like a furnace."
"These exams are enough to make any one sigh. And I am way behind. I
must study day and night."
"There are always engagements at this season, and weddings at Easter,"
returned Weir, laughingly.
"That isn't guessing, Jim!"
"Oh, bother! What do I care?"
"Then your charmer told you last night?"
"My charmer? What are you driving at, Gaynor?"
"Oh, how innocent! Miss Lily Ludlow."
"I've met that Lewis there," returned Jim, with an air of bravado,
though he flushed a little. "He's a regular stick."
"But it isn't Lewis. It's that Gerald Williamson,--a man about town. And
the queer thing is that he thinks he has struck a fortune. Do you
know, Jim? Is she to be the old lady's heir?"
Jim was silent. What should he say?
"Of course she is," said Weir. "That is--I think it depends on whether
Mrs. Nicoll approves of the marriage."
He had turned very pale.
"Are you sure it is Williamson?" asked Jim.
"He announced it himself. My cousin heard him. And as for the old
lady--the house is willed away. I've heard some talk; I can't just
remember what. She's been shrewdly giving the impression."
"It would be a shame to sell her to the highest bidder! And Williamson's
double her age. No sister of mine would be allowed to do such a thing.
She can't love him! Why, she has only been driving out with him a few
times."
"If she's sold, she has done the business herself. She's a girl to look
out for the main chance. Weir, I hope you haven't been hovering too near
the flame. The Ludlow is capital to flirt with,--quick, spicy,
sentimental by spells, not the kind of a girl to waste herself on a
young, impecunious fellow like our friend Jim, here, so he goes
scot-free. Weir, I hope you're not hard hit. We've all had a good time;
but I think now we must address ourselves to the examinations in hand,
and let the girls go. Though I am in for two big weddings, presently."
There was a summons to the class-room that stopped the chaffing. Jim
felt very sober. Lily had indirectly led him to think she cared a great
deal about him, and if matters only were a little different! He ought
not to get engaged; but the preference was flattering when a man like
Weir was head over heels in love with her!
But to marry an old man like Gerald Williamson! thought the young
fellow, disdainfully.
CHAPTER XVI
COUNTING UP THE COST
Jim failed miserably. What was the matter? He couldn't seem to remember
the simplest thing. Did it make any difference to him whom she married?
Well--if it had been Weir; but that imperious, pretentious,
half-dissipated Williamson, who report said had run though with one
fortune, and two years ago had fallen heir to another! Why were some
people so lucky! Grandmother Van Kortlandt had some money; but Hanny was
named for her, and Joe was a great favourite. Then Jim flushed hotly.
The idea of counting on any one's money!
Still he had a boyish, chivalric idea that he would like to snatch Lily
from this awful peril, as it seemed to him. Could it be really true? The
older men said Williamson was a braggart. There might be no truth in it.
He would ask Lily.
Several days passed before Jim achieved his desire. Then, as he loitered
around one afternoon, he saw Williamson leave the house. After a few
moments he knocked.
"Miss Lily is indisposed, and cannot see any one," announced the maid.
"She will see me," returned Jim, with an air of dignity; and he walked
into the parlour that had an atmosphere of twilight, quite determined to
remain until she came down.
She seemed in no hurry, and Jim's temper began to loose its serenity.
The maid came and lighted the gas jet in the hall. Then there was a
rustle of silken garments on the stair.
"Oh, Jim dear," the entreating voice said, "I've had such a horrid
headache all the afternoon. I've been in the bed. I really did not feel
fit to see any one," with a languid, indifferent air.
And Williamson had just gone away!
"So you will excuse me, if I'm stupid--"
"Is the story true about your--your engagement?" asked the young fellow,
abruptly.
"My engagement? Well, I've had an offer of marriage,--two of them.
Wouldn't you advise me to take the best one?" rather archly.
The tone rang flippantly. Jim felt she was evading.
"You see I can't be young always. And Aunt Nicoll may go without a
moment's warning. She had a bad spell yesterday; and she does get in
such horrid tantrums! Mother is awfully tired of staying with her. And
most girls get married--those who have a chance." She ended with a
forced little laugh.
"Is it Williamson? You don't know the sort of man he is," and Jim's
voice was husky with emotion.
"Oh, everybody gets talked about sooner or later! He has been rather
wild; but he wants to settle down now. And I'm not a sentimental girl.
Yes, I do think I'll take him," hesitatingly.
"Lily!"
"Oh, Jim, you are very young and inexperienced! If you were ten years
older, there wouldn't be a man on the whole earth I'd marry as soon. But
you know I said we could only be friends; and I hope you haven't been
cherishing any silly romances about me," tossing her head coquettishly.
"I shall always like you, and I want us to keep friends. But you can't
understand all the reasons. Some girls might drag you into an
engagement, and waste all your young years; but I could not be so mean
to any friend I cared about. We have settled all this matter."
Her tone took on a rather sharp business accent. It was almost curt.
Yes, it had been settled. Yet she had demanded a lover-like devotion,
and allowed him to speculate on what might have been if she were rich or
he older. And though Jim's sturdy common-sense had kept him from going
very deep, he felt wretched and jealous that any other man should have
the supreme right; and yet he had a conviction that the friendship or
flirtation ought to end.
"He thinks you are Mrs. Nicoll's heiress."
She gave a light laugh. "Oh, that will do to talk about; and she may
leave me a little. If I was her heiress--"
The glance roused Jim's anger. He rose suddenly.
"I hope you love Williamson," he said, in a tone that he meant to sound
bitterly cutting. "A girl who sells herself for money to such a man--"
"Nonsense, Jim!" She rose also. "You'll find most of the world will
consider it a good marriage; and anyhow, I have to look out for myself.
It's too bad to break up the pleasant times we've had this winter; but
you must not be angry. You will understand it better presently. I
wouldn't let you go off in this way if I hadn't such a wretched
headache; but you will come in again."
Jim said good-evening with superb dignity. What a stylish fellow he was.
Of course he felt a little "huffy" now; but next winter, when she had a
home of her own, she would give attractive parties, and invite Jim among
the very first. By that time he would be over his boyish folly. And now,
what must she wear to the theatre to-night? She must look her prettiest.
Her wretched headache was gone.
James Underhill felt as he had sometimes in the old school days, that he
had been duped. He was angry with her, with himself. He had brought his
friends to the house; and he knew Weir was really in love with her, yet
she had laughed daintily about some of his peculiarities. What if she
had laughed with Gaynor about him? She did satirise people. It was
strange how many faults he saw in her! Yet he did hate to have her
marry Williamson.
He heard of her being at the theatre that evening with an array of
diamonds, which young girls seldom wore. In a week or so the marriage
was discussed with a little wonder. Mrs. Nicoll was one of the old New
Yorkers, a Ludlow herself. It was fortunate for Lily's prestige that her
plain, unambitious father was dead, and her mother kept well in the
background. No one quite knew about the fortune.
Richard Weir was certainly hard hit. He made a pretence of devoting
himself to his studies to keep away from Gaynor's raillery. But one day
he said to Jim,--
"Something ought to be done to save Miss Ludlow from such an awful
sacrifice; don't you think so, Underhill? That old aunt has egged her
on, and she's doing this for her mother's sake. If I was in a position
to marry, I know I could persuade her to throw it up. What shall I do,
Jim? I know she really loves me. She is heroic about it. She thinks it
would spoil my life in the very beginning. I don't know how father would
take it; and there's such a family of us to provide for."
"Let her alone," returned Jim, gruffly. So she had played with this
honest-hearted young fellow as well; and the saddest of all was that he
really believed in her.
"She will marry Williamson, no matter what comes. Weir, I'm sorry enough
I introduced you, if you are going to take it that way. Lily Ludlow is
a flirt, pure and simple. I've never believed it until now. There is no
use in our wasting our sympathies upon her."
"You don't half do her justice, Jim; if you could hear her side--"
"I have heard it," laconically. "Weir, I'm awful sorry," and he wrung
the young fellow's hand.
There was another aspect to Jim beside the mortification. He had dropped
behind in his standing. Late hours and planning all sorts of amusements
had distracted his attention. And there was another fact to face. He had
been spending money with a lavishness that he wondered at now. He had
borrowed of Weir, of Gaynor, of Ben. When he counted up the total he was
dismayed. His father had been generous. They had all been very proud of
him. How could he confess the miserable fiasco to any one? Perhaps,
after he had taken his degree--
But he had to study hard for that. No more frolicking about! He had a
good deal of resolution, when it was put to the test. He would ask
sober-going Ben to lend him a hundred dollars, which he would pay back
by degrees. No girl should ever win a smile out of him again. He would
never borrow when he was once out of this difficulty.
He knew Dick Weir really needed his money, and this emboldened him to
apply to Ben. Alas!
"I'd do it in a minute Jim; but I've been trying a sort of experiment.
I had a chance to buy some capital stock, five hundred dollars' worth,
and I just scraped up everything I had, and borrowed, so I'm behind, and
must catch up. You've been pretty gay, haven't you, Jim?"
"I have been an idiot," replied Jim, sturdily. "But I have learned a
lesson."
"You just go to Joe. He's the best fellow in all the world. Don't worry
father about it; he takes such pride in his young collegian," and Ben
