er the wine, the better it was liked. The 
strongest and best was in old times called 
theologicum, because it was had from the 
clergy and religious men, to whose houses 
the laity sent their bottles to be filled, 
sure that the religious would neither 
drink nor be served with the worst ; for 
the merchant would have thought his 
soul should have gone straightway to the 
devil if he had sent them any but the 
best. The beer served at noblemen's 
tables was commonly a year old, and 
sometimes two, but this age was not 
usual. In households generally it was 
not under a month old, for beer was 
liked stale if it were not sour, while 
bread was desired as new as possible so 
that it was not hot. 
The husbandman and artificer ate such 
meat as they could easiest come by and 
have most quickly ready ; yet the ban- 
quets of the trades in London were not 
inferior to those of the nobility. The 
husbandmen, however, exceed in pro- 
fusion, and it is incredible to tell what 
meat is consumed at bridals, purifica- 
tions, and such like odd meetings ; but 
each guest brought his own provision, 
so that the master of the house had only 
to provide bread, drink, house-room, and 
fire. These lower classes Harrison found 
very friendly at their tables — merry 
without malice, plain without Italian or 
French subtlety — so that it would do a 
man good to be in company among them; 
but if they happen to stumble upon a 
piece of venison or a cup of wine or very 
strong beer, they do not stick to com- 
pare themselves with the lord-mayor — 
and there is no public man in any city 
of Europe that may compare with him 
in port and countenance during the term 
of his office. 
Harrison commends the great silence 
used at the tables of the wiser sort, and 
generally throughout the realm,and like- 
wise the moderate eating and drinking. 
But the poorer countrymen do babble 
somewhat at table, and mistake ribaldry 
and loquacity for wit and wisdom, and 
occasionally are cup-shotten ; and what 
wonder, when they who have hard diet 
and small drink at home come to such 
opportunities at a banquet ! The wealth- 
ier sort in the country entertain their 
visitors from afar, however long they 
stay, with as hearty a welcome the last 
day as the first; and the countrymen 
contrast this hospitality with that of 
their London cousins, who joyfully re- 
ceive them the first day, tolerate them 
the second, weary of them the third, and 
wish 'em at the devil after four days. 
The gentry usually ate wheat bread, 
of which there were four kinds ; and the 
poor generally bread made of rye, bar- 
ley, and even oats and acorns. Corn 
was getting so dear, owing to the fore- 
stalled and middle-men, that, says the 
historian, " if the world last a while after 
this rate, wheat and rye will be no grain 
for poor men to feed on ; and some 
catterpillers [two - legged speculators] 
there are that can say so much al- 
ready." 
The great drink of the realm was, of 
course, beer (and it is to be noted that 
a great access of drunkenness came into 
England with the importation much later 
of Holland gin) made from barley, hops, 
and water, and upon the brewing of it 
Harrison dwells lovingly, and devotes 
many pages to a description of the proc- 
ess, especially as "once in a month prac- 
tised by my wife and her maid servants." 
 
They ground eight bushels of malt, add- 
ed half a bushel of wheat meal, half a 
bushel of oat meal, poured in eighty gal- 
lons of water, then eighty gallons more, 
and a third eighty gallons, and boiled 
with a couple of pounds of hops. This, 
with a few spices thrown in, made three 
hogsheads of good beer, meet for a poor 
man who had only forty pounds a year. 
This two hundred gallons of beer cost al- 
together twenty shillings ; but although 
he says his wife brewed it " once in a 
month," whether it lasted a whole month 
the parson does not say. He was particu- 
lar about the water used : the Thames is 
best, the marsh worst, and clear spring 
water next worst ; " the fattest standing 
water is always the best." Cider and 
perry were made in some parts of Eng- 
land, and a delicate sort of drink in 
Wales, called metheglin ; but there was 
a kind of " swish-swash " made in Es- 
 
sex from honey-combs and water, called 
mead, which differed from the metheglin 
as chalk from cheese. 
In Shakespeare's day much less time 
was spent in eating and drinking than 
formerly, when, besides breakfast in the 
forenoon and dinners, there were " bev- 
erages" or " nuntion " after dinner, and 
supper before going to bed — "a toie 
brought in by hardie Canutus," who 
was a gross feeder. Generally there 
were, except for the young who could 
not fast till dinner-time, only two meals 
daily, dinner and supper. Yet the Nor- 
mans had brought in the habit of sitting 
long at the table — a custom not yet al- 
together abated, since the great people, 
especially at banquets, sit till two or 
three o'clock in the afternoon ; so that it 
is a hard matter to rise and go to even- 
ing prayers and return in time for sup- 
per. 
 
Harrison does not make much account 
of the early meal called " breakfast "; 
but Froude says that in Elizabeth's time 
the common hour of rising, in the coun- 
try, was four o'clock, summer and win- 
ter, and that breakfast was at five, after 
which the laborers went to work and 
the gentlemen to business. The Earl 
and Countess of Northumberland break- . 
fasted together and alone at seven. The 
meal consisted of a quart of ale, a quart 
of wine, and a chine of beef; a loaf of 
bread is not mentioned, but we hope 
(says Froude) it may be presumed. The 
gentry dined at eleven and supped at 
five. The merchants took dinner at 
noon, and, in London, supped at six. 
The university scholars out of term ate 
dinner at ten. The husbandmen dined at 
high noon, and took supper at seven or 
eight. As for the poorer sort, it is need- 
less to talk of their order of repast, for 
 
they dined and supped when they could. 
The English usually began meals with 
the grossest food and ended with the 
most delicate, taking first the mild wines 
and ending with the hottest ; but the 
prudent Scot did otherwise, making 
his entrance with the best, so that 
he might leave the worse to the me- 
nials. 
.1 will close this portion of our sketch 
of English manners with an extract from 
the travels of Hentzner, who visited 
England in 1598, and saw the great 
queen go in state to chapel at Green- 
wich, and afterwards witnessed the lay- 
ing of the table for her dinner. It was 
on Sunday. The queen was then in her 
sixth-fifth year, and " very majestic," 
as she walked in the splendid procession 
of barons, earls, and knights of the gar- 
ter: " her face, oblong, fair, but wrin- 
kled ; her eyes small, yet black and pleas- 
 
ant ; her nose a little hooked ; her lips 
narrow, and her teeth black (a defect 
the English seem subject to from their 
great use of sugar). She had in her 
ears two pearls with very rich drops ; 
she wore false hair, and that red ; upon 
her head she had a small crown, reported 
to be made of some of the gold of'the 
celebrated Lunebourg table. Her bosom 
was uncovered, as all the English ladies 
have it till they marry ; and she had on 
a necklace of exceeding fine jewels; her 
hands were small, her fingers long, and 
her stature neither small nor low; her 
air was stately, her manner of speaking 
mild and obliging. That day she was 
dressed in white silk, bordered with 
pearls of the size of beans, and over it 
a mantle of black silk, shot with silver 
threads ; her train was very long, and 
the end of it borne by a marchioness; 
instead of a chain she had an oblong collar 
of gold and jewels." As she swept 
on in this magnificence, she spoke gra- 
ciously first to one, then to another, and 
always in the language of any foreigner 
she addressed ; whoever spoke to her 
kneeled, and wherever she turned her 
face, as she was going along, everybody 
fell down on his knees. When she pulled 
off her glove to give her hand to be 
kissed, it was seen to be sparkling with 
rings and jewels. The ladies of the court, 
handsome and well shaped, followed, 
dressed for the most part in white ; 
and on either side she was guarded 
by fifty gentlemen pensioners with gilt 
battle-axes. In the ante-chapel, where 
she graciously received petitions, there 
was an acclaim of " Long live Queen 
Elizabeth !" to which she answered, " I 
thank you, my good people." The music 
in the chapel was excellent, and the 
whole service was over in half an hour. 
 
This is Hentzner's description of the 
setting out of her table : 
" A gentleman entered the room bear- 
ing a rod, and along with him another 
who had a table-cloth, which, after they 
had both kneeled three times, he spread 
upon the table ; and after kneeling again 
they both retired. Then came two 
others, one with the rod again, the other 
with a salt-cellar, a plate, and bread ; and 
when they had kneeled as the others had 
done, and placed what was brought upon 
the table, they two retired with the same 
ceremonies performed by the first. At 
last came an unmarried lady (we were 
told she was a countess) and along with 
her a married one, bearing a tasting- 
knife ; the former was dressed in white 
silk, who, when she had prostrated her- 
self three times, in the most graceful 
manner approached the table, and rubbed 
the plates with bread and salt, with as 
much awe as if the Queen had been pres- 
ent. When they had waited there a lit- 
tle while the Yeomen of the Guard en- 
tered, bare-headed^ clothed in scarlet, 
with a golden rose upon their backs, 
bringing in at each turn a course of twen- 
ty-four dishes, served in plate, most of 
it gilt ; these dishes were received by a 
gentleman in the same order they were 
brought, and placed upon the table, while 
the Lady Taster gave to each of the 
guard a mouthful to eat, of the particu- 
lar dish he had brought, for fear of any 
poison. During the time that this guard, 
which consists of the tallest and stout- 
est men that can be found in all Eng- 
land, being carefully selected for this 
service, were bringing dinner, twelve 
trumpets and two kettle-drums made 
the hall ring for half an hour together. 
At the end of all this ceremonial, a num- 
ber of unmarried ladies appeared, who 
with particular solemnity lifted the meat 
of! the table and conveyed it into the 
Queen's inner and more private cham- 
ber, where, after she had chosen for her- 
self, the rest goes to the Ladies of the 
court." 
The queen dined and supped alone, 
with very few attendants. 
 
CHAPTER II 
We now approach perhaps the most 
important matter in this world, namely, 
dress. In nothing were the increasing 
wealth and extravagance of the period 
more shown than in apparel. And in it 
we are able to study the origin of the 
present English taste for the juxtapo- 
sition of striking and uncomplementary 
colors. In Coryat's "Crudities," 1611, 
we have an Englishman's contrast of the 
dress of the Venetians and the English. 
The Venetians adhered, without change, 
to their decent fashion, a thousand years 
old, wearing usually black: the slender 
doublet made close to the body, without 
much quilting ; the long hose plain, the 
jerkin also black — but all of the most 
costly stuffs Christendom can furnish, 
satins and taffetas, garnished with the 
best lace. Gravity and good taste char- 
acterized their apparel. " In both these 
things," says Coryat, " they differ much 
from us Englishmen. For whereas they 
have but one color, we use many more 
than are in the rainbow, all the most 
light, garish, and unseemly colors that 
are in the world. Also for fashion we 
are much inferior to them. For w.e 
wear more fantastical fashions than any 
nation under the sun doth, the French 
only excepted." On festival days, in 
processions, the senators wore crimson 
damask gowns, with flaps of crimson 
velvet cast over their left shoulders ; and 
the Venetian knights differed from the 
other gentlemen, for under their black 
damask gowns, with long sleeves, they 
wore red apparel, red silk stockings, and 
red pantofles. 
 
Andrew Boord, in 1547, attempting to 
describe the fashions of his countrymen, 
gave up the effort in sheer despair over 
the variety and fickleness of costume, 
and drew a naked man with a pair of 
shears in one hand and a piece of cloth 
in the other, to the end that he should 
shape his apparel as he himself liked ; 
and this he called an Englishman. Even 
the gentle Harrison, who gives Boord 
the too harsh character of a lewd popish 
hypocrite and ungracious priest, admits 
that he was not void of judgment in this ; 
and he finds it easier to inveigh against 
the enormity, the fickleness, and the fan- 
tasticality of the English attire than to 
describe it. So unstable is the fashion, 
he says, that to-day the Spanish guise 
is in favor; to-morrow the French toys 
are most fine and delectable ; then the 
high German apparel is the go ; next the 
Turkish manner is best liked, the Mo- 
risco gowns, the Barbary sleeves, and 
the short French breeches ; in a word, 
" except it were a dog in a doublet, you 
shall not see any so disguised as are my 
countrymen in England." 
This fantastical folly was in all de- 
grees, from the courtier down to the 
carter. " It is a world to see the cost- 
liness and the curiosity, the excess and 
the vanity, the pomp and the bravery, 
the change and the variety, and finally 
the fickleness and the folly that is in all 
degrees ; insomuch that nothing is more 
constant in England than inconstancy of 
attire. So much cost upon the body, so 
little upon souls ; how many suits of ap- 
parel hath the one, or how little furni- 
ture hath the other !" And how men 
and women worry the poor tailors, with 
endless fittings and sending back of gar- 
ments, and trying on ! " Then must the 
long seams of our hose be set with a 
plumb line, then we puff, then we blow, 
and finally sweat till we drop, that our 
clothes may stand well upon us." 
The barbers were as cunning in vari- 
ety as the tailors. Sometimes the head 
was polled; sometimes the hair was 
curled, and then suffered to grow long 
like a woman's locks, and many times 
cut off, above or under the ears, round 
as by a wooden dish. And so with the 
beards : some shaved from the chin, like 
the Turks ; some cut short, like the beard 
of the Marquis Otto ; some made round, 
like a rubbing - brush ; some peaked, 
others grown long. If a man have a 
lean face, the Marquis Otto's cut makes 
it broad ; if it be platter-like, the long, 
slender beard makes it seem narrow ; 
"if he be weasel-beaked, then much 
hair left on the cheeks will make the 
owner look big like a bowdled hen, and 
so grim as a goose." Some courageous 
gentlemen wore in their ears rings of 
gold and stones, to improve God's work, 
which was otherwise set off by mon- 
strous quilted and stuffed doublets, that 
puffed out the figure like a barrel. 
There is some consolation, though I 
don't know why, in the knowledge that 
writers have always found fault with 
women's fashions, as they do to-day. 
Harrison says that the women do far 
exceed the lightness of the men ; " such 
staring attire as in time past was sup- 
posed meet for light housewives only is 
now become an habit for chaste and so- 
ber matrons." And he knows not what 
to say of their doublets, with pendant 
pieces on the breast full of jags and cuts ; 
their " galligascons," to make their 
dresses stand out plumb round ; their 
farthingales and divers colored stock- 
ings. " I have met," he says, " with 
some of these trulls in London so disguised 
that it hath passed my skill to 
determine whether they were men or 
women." Of all classes the merchants 
were most to be commended for rich but 
sober attire ; " but the younger sort of 
their wives, both in attire and costly 
housekeeping, cannot tell when and how 
to make an end, as being women in- 
deed in whom all kind of curiosity is to 
be found and seen." Elizabeth's time, 
like our own, was distinguished by new 
fashionable colors, among which are 
mentioned a queer greenish-yellow, a 
pease-porridge-tawny, a popinjay of blue, 
a lusty gallant, and the " devil in the 
hedge." These may be favorites still, 
for aught I know. 
Mr. Furnivall quotes a description of 
a costume of the period, from the man- 
uscript of Orazio Busino's " Anglipo- 
trida." Busino was the chaplain of Piero 
Contarina, the Venetian ambassador to 
 
James I., in 1617. The chaplain was 
one day stunned with grief over the 
death of the butler of the embassy ; and 
as the Italians sleep away grief, the 
French sing, the Germans drink, and 
the English go to plays to be rid of it, 
the Venetians, by advice, sought conso- 
lation at the Fortune Theatre ; and there 
a trick was played upon old Busino, by 
placing him among a bevy of young 
women, while the concealed ambassa- 
dor and the secretary enjoyed the joke. 
" These theatres," says Busino, " are 
frequented by a number of respectable 
and handsome ladies, who come freely 
and seat themselves among the men 
without the slightest hesitation. . . . 
Scarcely was I seated ere a very elegant 
dame, but in a mask, came and placed 
herself beside me. . . . She asked me 
for my address both in French and Eng- 
lish ; and, on my turning a deaf ear, 
she determined to honor me by show- 
ing me some fine diamonds on her fin- 
gers, repeatedly taking off no fewer than 
three gloves, which were worn one over 
the other. . . . This lady's bodice was 
of yellow satin, richly embroidered, her 
petticoat* of gold tissue with stripes, 
her robe of red velvet with a raised pile, 
lined with yellow muslin with broad 
stripes of pure gold. She wore an 
apron of point lace of various patterns ; 
her head-tire was highly perfumed, and 
the collar of white satin beneath the 
delicately wrought ruff struck me as ex- 
ceedingly pretty." It was quite in keep- 
ing with the manners of the day for a 
lady of rank to have lent herself to this 
hoax of the chaplain. 
* It is a trifle in human progress, perhaps 
scarcely worth noting, that the " round 
gown," that is, an entire skirt, not open in 
front and parting to show the under petti- 
coat, did not come into fashion till near the 
close of the eighteenth century. 
Van Meteren, a Netherlander, 1575, 
speaks also of the astonishing change or 
changeableness in English fashions, but 
says the women are well dressed and 
modest, and they go about the streets 
without any covering of mantle, hood, 
or veil ; only the married women wear 
a hat in the street and in the house ; 
the unmarried go without a hat ; but 
ladies of distinction have lately learned 
to cover their faces with silken masks 
or vizards, and to wear feathers. The 
English, he notes, change their fashions 
every year, and when they go abroad 
riding or travelling they don their best 
clothes, contrary to the practice of other 
nations. Another foreigner, Jacob Rath- 
geb, 1592, says the English go dressed 
in exceeding fine clothes, and some will 
even wear velvet in the street, when 
they have not at home perhaps a piece 
of dry bread. " The lords and pages of 
the royal court have a stately, noble air, 
but dress more after the French fashion, 
only they wear short cloaks and some- 
times Spanish caps." 
Harrison's arraignment of the English 
fashions of his day may be considered 
as almost commendative beside the dia- 
tribes of the old Puritan Philip Stubbes, 
in " The Anatomie of Abuses," 1583. The 
English language is strained for words 
hot and rude enough to express his in- 
dignation, contempt, and fearful expec- 
tation of speedy judgments. The men 
escape his hands with scarcely less dam- 
age than the women. First he wreaks 
his indignation upon the divers kinds of 
hats, stuck full of feathers, of various 
colors, "ensigns of vanity," "fluttering 
sails and feathered flags of defiance to 
virtue" ; then upon the monstrous ruffs 
that stand out a quarter of a yard from 
the neck. As the devil, in the fulness of 
his malice, first invented these ruffs, so 
has he found out two stays to bear up 
this his great kingdom of ruffs — one is a 
kind of liquid matter they call starch ; 
the other is a device made of wires, for 
an under-propper. Then there are shirts 
of cambric, holland, and lawn, wrought 
with fine needle-work of silk and curi- 
ously stitched, costing sometimes as 
much as five pounds. Worse still are 
the monstrous doublets, reaching down 
to the middle of the thighs, so hard 
quilted, stuffed, bombasted, and sewed 
that the wearer can hardly stoop 
down in them. Below these are the 
gally-hose of silk, velvet, satin, and 
damask, reaching below the knees. So 
costly are these that "now it is a small 
matter to bestow twenty nobles, ten 
pound, twenty pound, fortie pound, yea 
a hundred pound of one pair of Breeches. 
(God be merciful unto us !)" To these 
gay hose they add nether-socks, curi- 
ously knit with open seams down the 
leg, with quirks and clocks about the 
ankles, and sometimes interlaced with 
gold and silver thread as is wonderful 
to behold. Time has been when a man 
could clothe his whole body for the 
price of these nether-socks. Satan was 
further let loose in the land by reason 
of cork shoes and fine slippers, of all 
colors, carved, cut, and stitched with 
silk, and laced on with gold and silver, 
which went flipping and flapping up and 
down in the dirt. The jerkins and 
cloaks are of all colors and fashions ; 
some short, reaching to the knee ; others 
dragging on the ground ; red, white, 
black, violet, yellow, guarded, laced, and 
faced ; hanged with points and tassels 
of gold, silver, and silk. The hilts of 
VELVET BREECHES AND CLOTH BREECHES 
 
daggers, rapiers, and swords are gilt 
thrice over, and have scabbards of vel- 
vet. And all this while the poor lie in 
London streets upon pallets of straw, 
or else in the mire and dirt, and die 
like dogs ! 
Stubbes was a stout old Puritan, bent 
upon hewing his way to heaven through 
all the allurements of this world, and 
suspecting a devil in every fair show. I 
fear that he looked upon woman as only 
a vain and trifling image, a delusive toy, 
away from whom a man must set his 
face. Shakespeare, who was country- 
bred when he came up to London, and 
lived probably on the roystering South 
Side, near the theatres and bear-gardens, 
seems to have been impressed with the 
painted faces of the women. It is prob- 
able that only town-bred women painted. 
Stubbes declares that the women of Eng- 
land color their faces with oils, liquors, 
 
unguents, and waters made to that end, 
thinking to make themselves fairer than 
God made them — a presumptuous au- 
dacity to make God untrue in his word ; 
and he heaps vehement curses upon the 
immodest practice. To this follows the 
trimming and tricking of their heads, the 
laying out their hair to show, which is 
curled, crisped, and laid out on wreaths 
and borders from ear to ear. Lest it 
should fall down it is under-propped with 
forks, wires, and what not. On the edges 
of their bolstered hair (for it standeth 
crested round about their frontiers, and 
hanging over their faces like pendices 
with glass windows on every side) is laid 
great wreaths of gold and silver curious- 
ly wrought. But this is not the worst 
nor the tenth part, for no pen is able to 
describe the wickedness. " The women 
use great ruffs and neckerchers of Hol- 
land, lawn, camerick, and such cloth, as 
 
the greatest thread shall not be so big as 
the least hair that is : then, lest they 
should fall down, they are smeared and 
starched in the Devil's liquor, I mean 
Starch ; after that dried with great dili- 
gence, streaked, patted and rubbed very 
nicely, and so applied to their goodly 
necks, and, withall, under-propped with 
supportasses, the stately arches of pride ; 
beyond all this they have a further fetch, 
nothing inferior to the rest ; as, namely, 
three or four degrees of minor ruffs, 
placed gradatim, step by step, one be- 
neath another, and all under the Master 
devil ruff. The skirts, then, of these 
great ruffs are long and side every way, 
pleted and crested full curiously, God 
wot." 
Time will not serve us to follow old 
Stubbes into his particular inquisition of 
every article of woman's attire, and his 
hearty damnation of them all and several. 
 
He cannot even abide their carrying of 
nosegays and posies of flowers to smell 
at, since the palpable odors and fumesof 
these do enter the brain to degenerate 
the spirit and allure to vice. They must 
needs carry looking-glasses with them; 
" and good reason," says Stubbes, sav- 
agely, " for else how could they see the 
devil in them ? for no doubt they are the 
devil's spectacles [these women] to al- 
lure us to pride and consequently to de- 
struction forever." And, as if it were 
not enough to be women, and the devil's 
aids, they do also have doublets and 
jerkins, buttoned up the breast, and made 
with wings, welts, and pinions on the 
shoulder points, as man's apparel is, for 
all the world. We take reluctant leave 
of this entertaining woman-hater, and 
only stay to quote from him a " fearful 
Judgment of God, shewed upon a gen- 
tlewoman of Antwerp of late, even the 
 
27th of May, 1582," which may be as 
profitable to read now as it was then : 
" This gentlewoman being a very rich 
Merchant man's daughter: upon a time 
was invited to a bridal, or wedding, which 
was solemnized in that Toune, against 
which day she made great preparation, 
for the pluming herself in gorgeous ar- 
ray, that as her body was most beauti- 
ful, fair, and proper, so her attire in ev- 
ery respect might be correspondent to 
the same. For the accomplishment 
whereof she curled her hair, she dyed 
her locks, and laid them out after the 
best manner, she colored her face with 
waters and Ointments : But in no case 
could she get any (so curious and dainty 
she was) that could starch, and set her 
Ruffs and Neckerchers to her mind : 
wherefore she sent for a couple of Laun- 
dresses, who did the best they could to 
please her humors, but in any wise they 
could not. Then fell she to swear and 
tear, to curse and damn, casting the Ruffs 
under feet, and wishing that the Devil 
might take her when she wear any of 
those Neckerchers again. In the mean- 
time (through the sufference of God) 
the Devil transforming himself into the 
form of a young man, as brave and 
proper as she in every point of outward 
appearance, came in, feigning himself 
to be a wooer or suitor unto her. And 
seeing her thus agonized, and in such a 
pelting chase, he demanded of her the 
cause thereof, who straightway told him 
(as women can conceal nothing that lieth 
upon their stomachs) howshe was abused 
in the setting of her Ruffs, which thing 
being heard of him, he promised to 
please her mind, and thereto took in 
hand the setting of her Ruffs, which he 
performed to her great contentation and 
liking, in so much as she looking herself 
 
in a glass (as the Devil bade her) became 
greatly enamoured of him. This done, 
the young man kissed her, in the doing 
whereof she writhe her neck in sunder, 
so she died miserably, her body being 
metamorphosed into black and blue col- 
ors, most ugglesome to behold, and her 
face (which before was so amorous) be- 
came most deformed, and fearful to look 
upon. This being known, preparaunce 
was made for her burial, a rich coffin 
was provided, and her fearful body was 
laid therein, and it covered very sumpt- 
uously. Four men immediately assay- 
ed to lift up the corpse, but could not 
move it ; then six attempted the like, but 
could not once stir it from the place 
where it stood. Whereat the standers- 
by marveling, caused the coffin to be 
opened to see the cause thereof. Where 
they found the body to be taken away, 
and a black Cat very lean and deformed 
 
sitting in the coffin, setting of great 
Ruffs, and frizzling of hair, to the great 
fear and wonder of all beholders." 
Better than this pride which fore- 
runneth destruction, in the opinion of 
Stubbes, is the habit of the Brazilian 
women, who " esteem so little of appar- 
el" that they rather choose to go naked 
than be thought to be proud. 
As I read the times of Elizabeth, there 
was then greater prosperity and enjoy- 
ment of life among the common people 
than fifty or a hundred years later. Into 
the question of the prices of labor and 
of food, which Mr. Froude considers so 
fully in the first chapter of his history, 
I shall not enter any further than to re- 
mark that the hardness of the laborer's 
lot, who got, mayhap, only twopence a 
day, is mitigated by the fact that for a 
penny he could buy a pound of meat 
which now costs a shilling. In two re- 
 
spects England has greatly changed for 
the traveller, from the sixteenth to the 
eighteenth century — in its inns and its 
roads. 
In the beginning of Elizabeth's reign 
travellers had no choice but to ride on 
horseback or to walk. Goods were trans- 
ported on strings of pack-horses. When 
Elizabeth rode into the city from her 
residence at Greenwich, she placed her- 
self behind her lord chancellor, on a 
pillion. The first improvement made 
was in the construction of a rude wagon — 
a cart without springs, the body resting 
solidly on the axles. In such a vehicle 
Elizabeth rode to the opening of her 
fifth Parliament. In 1583, on a certain 
day, Sir Harry Sydney entered Shrews- 
bury in his wagon, " with his trompeter 
blowynge, verey joyfull to behold and 
see." Even such conveyances fared hard 
on the execrable roads of the period. 
 
Down to the end of the seventeenth 
century most of the country roads were 
merely broad ditches, water-worn and 
strewn with loose stones. In i64oQueen 
Henrietta was four weary days dragging 
over the road from Dover to London, 
the best in England. Not till the close 
of the sixteenth century was the wagon 
used, and then rarely. Fifty years later 
stage-wagons ran, with some regularity, 
between London and Liverpool; and be- 
fore the close of the seventeenth cen- 
tury the stage-coach, a wonderful inven- 
tion, which had been used in and about 
London since 1650, was placed on three 
principal roads of the kingdom. It aver- 
aged two to three miles an hour. In 
the reign of Charles II. a Frenchman 
who landed at Dover was drawn up to 
London in a wagon with six horses in a 
line, one after the other. Our Venetian, 
Busino, who went to Oxford in the coach 
 
with the ambassador in 1617, was six 
days in going one hundred and fifty 
miles, as the coach often stuck in the 
mud, and once broke down. So bad 
were the main thoroughfares, even, that 
markets were sometimes inaccessible for 
months together, and the fruits of the 
earth rotted in one place, while there 
was scarcity not many miles distant. 
But this difficulty of travel and liabil- 
ity to be detained long on the road were 
cheered by good inns, such as did not 
exist in the world elsewhere. All the 
literature of the period reflects lovingly 
the home-like delights of these comfort- 
able houses of entertainment. Every 
little village boasted an excellent inn, 
and in the towns on the great thorough- 
fares were sumptuous houses that would 
accomodate from two to three hundred 
guests with their horses. The land- 
lords were not tyrants, as on the Conti- 
 
nent, but servants of their guests ; and 
it was, says Harrison, a world to see 
how they did contend for the entertain- 
ment of their guests — as about fineness 
and change of linen, furniture of bed- 
ding, beauty of rooms, service at the 
table, costliness of plate, strength of 
drink, variety of wines, or well-using of 
horses. The gorgeous signs at their 
doors sometimes cost forty pounds. The 
inns were cheap too, and the landlord 
let no one depart dissatisfied with his 
bill. The worst inns were in London, 
and the tradition has been handed down. 
But the ostlers, Harrison confesses, did 
sometimes cheat in the feed, and they 
with the tapsters and chamberlains were 
in league (and the 'landlord was not 
always above suspicion) with highway- 
men outside, to ascertain if the traveller 
carried any valuables ; so that when he 
left the hospitable inn he was quite likely 
 
to be stopped on the highway and re- 
lieved of his money. The highwayman 
was a conspicuous character. One of the 
most romantic of these gentry at one 
time was a woman named Mary Frith, 
born in 1585, and known as Mall Cut- 
Purse. She dressed in male attire, was 
an adroit fencer, a bold rider, and a 
staunch royalist ; she once took two 
hundred gold jacobuses from the Parlia- 
mentary General Fairfax on Hounslow 
Heath. She is the chief character in 
Middleton's play of the " Roaring Girl "; 
and after a varied life as a thief, cut-purse, 
pickpocket, highwayman, trainer of ani- 
mals, and keeper of a thieves' " fence," she 
died in peace at the age of seventy. To 
return to the inns, Fyner Morrison, a 
traveller in 161 7, sustains all that Harri- 
son says of the inns as the best and 
cheapest in the world, where -the guest 
shall have his own pleasure. No sooner 
 
does he arrive than the servants run to 
him — one takes his horse, another shows 
him his chamber and lights his fire, a 
third pulls off his boots. Then come the 
host and hostess to inquire what meat 
he will choose, and he may have their 
company if he like. He shall be offered 
music while he eats, and if he be solitary 
the musicians will give him good-day 
with music in the morning. In short, 
" a man cannot more freely command 
at home, in his own house, than he may 
do in his inn." 
The amusements of the age were often 
rough, but certainly more moral than 
they were later; and although the thea- 
tres were denounced by such reformers 
as Stubbes as seminaries of vice, and 
disapproved by Harrison, they were bet- 
ter than after the Restoration, when the 
plays of Shakespeare were out of fash- 
ion. The Londoners went for amuse- 
 
ment to the Bankside, or South Side of 
the Thames, where were the famous 
Paris Gardens, much used as a rendez- 
vous by gallants ; and there were the 
places for bear and bull baiting ; and 
there were the theatres — the Paris Gar- 
dens, the Swan, the Rose, the Hope, 
and the Globe. The pleasure -seekers 
went over usually in boats, of which 
there were said to be four thousand ply- 
ing between banks ; for there was only 
one bridge, and that was crowded with 
houses. All distinguished visitors were 
taken over to see the gardens and the 
bears baited by dogs ; the queen herself 
went, and perhaps on Sunday, for Sun- 
day was the great day, and Elizabeth is 
