time to get supper. She did her household duties mechanically, and the
eyes of mother and daughter never met. The man Oscar kept out of her
way.
Miss Galpin had gone to San Francisco and would return no more: she was
to marry. Rosita was visiting in Santa Barbara. Manuela, now a young
lady, was devoting the greater part of her time to the Hotel Del Monte,
where the flower and vegetables of San Francisco gather in summer. She
went up to the tanks in the morning and to the dances in the evening;
and informed Patience, one day as they met on the street, that she was
having a perfectly gorgeous time, and had met a man who was too lovely
for words.
The long hot days and the foggy nights wore slowly away. Patience grew
thinner, her face harder. Mr. Foord did his best to divert her, but his
resources were limited. She peremptorily forbade him to allude to the
romance of Monterey, and he took her out in his old buggy and talked of
Gibbon’s “Rome.”
Once they drove through the grounds of Del Monte,—the trim artificial
grounds that are such an anomaly in that valley of memories. On the long
veranda of the great hotel of airy architecture people sat in the bright
attire of summer. Matrons rocked and gossiped; girls talked eagerly to
languid youths that sat on the railing. It was all as unreal to Patience
as the fairy-land of her childhood, when she had hunted for fays and
elves in the wood. She stared at the scene angrily, for the first time
feeling the sting of the social bee.
“A vain frivolous life those people lead,” remarked Mr. Foord, who
disapproved of The World. “A waste of time and God’s best gifts, which
makes them selfish and heartless. Empty heads and hollow hearts.”
But Patience, gazing at those girls in their gay dainty attire, the like
of which she had never seen before, experienced a sudden violent wish to
be of them, empty head, hollow heart, and all. They looked happy and
free of care. The very atmosphere of the veranda seemed full of colour
and music. Above all, they were utterly different from Patience
Sparhawk, blessed and enviable beings. Even the frivolity of the scene
appealed to her, so sick unto death of serious things.
                                  XVII
One day, late in September, Patience, as usual, left Monterey at half
past four in order to reach home in time to cook the supper. Nature had
smiled for so many successive days that she wondered if the lips so
persistently set must not soon strain back and reveal the teeth. The
sun, poised behind the pine woods, flooded them with yellow light. As
Patience walked through the soft radiance she set her teeth and recalled
the chapters of Thiers’ “French Revolution,” through which she had that
day plodded. But her head felt dull. She realised with a quiver of
terror that she was beginning to feel less like an intellect and more
like a very helpless little girl. Once she discovered her curved arm
creeping to her eyes. She flung it down and shook her head angrily. Was
she like other people?
Mingling with the fragrance of the pines it seemed to her that she smelt
smoke. She hoped that her woods were not on fire. She walked slowly,
indisposed as ever to return home, the more so to-day as she felt
herself breaking.
“I wish the sun would not grin so,” she thought. “I’ll be glad when
winter comes.”
The smell of smoke grew stronger. She left the woods. A moment later she
stood, white and trembling, looking down upon Carmel Valley. The
Sparhawk farmhouse was a blazing mass of timbers. A volume of smoke, as
straight and full as a waterspout, stood directly above it. Men were
running about. Their shouts came faintly to her.
Patience pressed her hands convulsively to her eyes. She clutched her
head as if to tear out the terrible hope clattering in her brain, then
ran down the hill and across the valley, feeling all the while as if
possessed by ten thousand devils.
“Oh, I’m bad, bad, bad!” she sobbed in terror. “I don’t, I don’t!”
As she reached the scene the roof fell in. She glanced hastily about.
The men, withdrawn to a safe distance, were gathered round the man
Oscar. One was binding his hands and face. As they saw Patience they
turned as if to run, then stood doggedly.
“Where is she?” Patience asked.
There was an instant’s pause. The crackling of the flames grew louder,
as if it would answer. Then one of the men blurted out: “Burnt up in her
bed. She was drunk. We was all in the field when the fire broke out.
When we got here Oscar tried to get at her room with a ladder, but it
was no go. Poor old Madge.”
Patience without another word turned and ran back to the woods. She ran
until she was exhausted, more horrified at herself than she had been at
any of her unhappy experiences. After a time she fell among the dry pine
needles, her good, as she expressed it, still trying to fight down her
bad. She felt that the demon possessing her would have sung aloud had
she not held it by the throat. She conjured up all the horrible details
of her mother’s death and ordered her soul to pity; but her brain
remarked coldly that her mother had probably felt nothing. She imagined
the charred corpse, but it only offended her artistic sense.
Finally she fell asleep. The day was far gone when she awoke. She lay
for a time staring at the dim arches above her, listening to the night
voices she had once loved so passionately. At last she drew a deep sigh.
“I might just as well face the truth,” she said aloud. “I’m glad, and
that’s the end of it. It’s wicked and I’m sorry; but what is, is, and I
can’t help it. We’re not all made alike.”
                                 XVIII
Patience was once more installed in Lola’s room. Mr. Foord applied for
letters of guardianship, which were granted at once. But as he had
feared, she was left without a penny. He wrote to his half-sister,
asking her if she would take charge of his ward. Miss Tremont replied in
enthusiastic affirmation. Miss Galpin invited Patience to spend two
weeks with her in San Francisco, offering to replenish the girl’s
wardrobe with several of her own old frocks made over.
Those two weeks seemed to Patience the mad whirl of excitement of which
she had read in novels. She had never seen a city before, and the very
cable cars fascinated her. To glide up and down the hills was to her the
poetry of science. The straggling city on its hundred hills, the crowded
streets and gay shop windows, the theatres, the restaurants, China Town,
the beautiful bay with its bare colorous hills, surprised her into
admitting that life appeared to be quite well worth living after all.
When she returned to Monterey she talked so fast that Mr. Foord clapped
his hands to his ears, and Rosita listened with expanded eyes.
“Ay, if I could live in San Francisco!” she said, plaintively. “I acted
all summer, Patita, but I got tired of the same people, and I want to go
to the big theatres and see the real ones do it. I’d like to hear a
great big house applauding, only I’d be so jealous of the leading lady.”
Patience was to start, immediately after Christmas, by steamer for New
York. Mr. Foord spent the last days giving her much good advice. He said
little of his own sorrow to part from her. Once he had been tempted to
keep her for the short time that remained to him, but had put the
temptation aside with the sad resignation of old age. He knew Patience’s
imperative need of new impressions in these her plastic years.
The day before she left she went over to Carmel to say good-bye to
Solomon. He flapped his wings with delight, although he could not see
her, and nestled close to her side in a manner quite unlike his haughty
habit. Patience thought he looked older and greyer, and his wings had a
dejected droop. She took him in her arms with an impulse of tenderness,
and this time he did not repulse her.
“Poor old Solomon,” she said, “I suppose you are lonely and forlorn in
your old age, but this old tower wouldn’t be what it is without you.
It’s too bad I can’t write to you as I can to my two or three other
friends, and you’ll never know I haven’t forgotten you, poor old
Solomon. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I wonder if owls do suffer too. You look so
wise and venerable, perhaps you are thinking that lonely old age is
terrible—as I know Mr. Foord does.”
Solomon pecked at her mildly. Her gaze wandered out over the ocean. She
wondered if a thousand years had passed since she had dreamed her
dreams. Their very echoes came from the mountains of space.
When she went away Solomon followed her to the head of the stair. She
looked upward once and saw him standing there, with drooping wings and
head a little bent. The darkness of the stair gave him vision, and he
fluttered his wings expectantly, as she paused and lifted her face to
him. But when she did not return he walked with great dignity to his
accustomed place against the wall, nor even lifted up his voice in
protest.
The next morning Rosita accompanied her to the station and wept loudly
as the train approached. But Patience did not cry until she stood in her
stateroom with Mr. Foord.
                                BOOK II
                                   I
Patience watched the dusty hills of San Francisco, the sparkling bay
alive with sail and spar, the pink mountains of the far coast range, the
brown hills opposite the grey city, willowed and gulched and bare, the
forts on rock and points, until the wild lurching of the steamer over
the bar directed her attention to the unhappy passengers. In a short
while she had not even these to amuse her, nothing but a grey plain and
empty decks. At first she felt a waif in space; but soon a delightful
sense of independence stole over her, of freedom from all the ills and
responsibilities of life. The land world might have collapsed upon its
fiery heart, so little could it affect her while that waste of waters
slid under the horizon.
The few passengers came forth restored in a day or two. A husband and
wife and several children did not interest Patience; neither did the
captain’s wife, in whose charge she was. A young girl with a tangle of
yellow hair under a sailor hat was more inviting, but she flirted
industriously with the purser and took not the slightest notice of
Patience. Her invalid mother reclined languidly in a steamer chair and
read the novels of E. P. Roe.
The only other passenger was an elderly gentleman who read books in
white covers neatly lettered with black which fascinated Patience. She
was beginning to long for books. The invalid lent her a Roe, but she
returned it half unread. As the old gentleman had never addressed her,
did not seem to be aware of her existence, she could hardly expect a
similar courtesy from him.
She was glowering upon universal stupidity one morning when he appeared
on deck with a carpet bag, from which, after comfortably establishing
himself in his steamer chair, he took little white volume after little
white volume. Patience’s curiosity overcame her. She went forward slowly
and stood before him. He looked up sharply. His black eyes, piercing
from their shaggy arches, made her twitch her head as if to fling aside
some penetrative force. His very beard, silver though it was, had a
fierce sidewise twist. His nose was full nostrilled and drooped
scornfully. The spectacles he wore served as a sort of lens for the fire
of his extraordinary eyes.
“Well?” he said gruffly.
“Please, sir,” said Patience, humbly, “will you lend me a book?”
“Book? I don’t carry children’s literature round with me.”
“I don’t read children’s literature.”
“Oh, you don’t? Well, not ‘The Chatterbox,’ I suppose; but I have
nothing of Pansy’s nor yet of The Duchess.”
“I wouldn’t read them if you had,” cried Patience, angrily. “Perhaps
I’ve read a good many books that you haven’t re-read so long ago
yourself. I’ve read Dickens and Thackeray and Scott, and,” with a
shudder, “Gibbon’s ‘Rome’ and Thiers’ ‘French Revolution.’”
“Oh, you have? Well, I beg your pardon. Sit down, and I’ll see if I can
find something for a young lady of your surprising attainments.”
Patience, too pleased to resent sarcasm, applied herself to his elbow.
“Why are they all bound alike?” she asked.
“This is the Tauchnitz edition of notable English and American books.
How is this?” He handed her a volume of Grace Aguilar.
“No, sir! I’ve tried her, and she’s a greater bore than Jane Austen.”
“Oh, you want a love story, I suppose?” His accentuation was fairly
sardonic.
“No, I don’t,” she said with an intonation which made him turn and
regard her with interest. Then once more he explored his bag.
“Will this suit you?” He held out a copy of Carlyle’s “French
Revolution.”
Patience groaned. “Didn’t I tell you I’d just read Thiers’?”
“This isn’t Thiers’. Try it.” And he took no further notice of her.
Patience opened the volume, and in a few moments was absorbed. There was
something in the storm and blare of the style which struck a responsive
chord. She did not raise her head until dinner time. She scarcely spoke
until she had finished the volume, and then only to ask for the second.
For several days she felt as if the atmosphere was charged with
dynamite, and jumped when any one addressed her. The owner of the
Tauchnitz watched her curiously. When she had finished the second volume
she told him that she did not care for anything more at present. She
leaned over the railing most of the day, watching the waves. Toward
sunset the gentleman called peremptorily,—
“Come here.”
Patience stood before his chair.
“Well, what do you think of it?” he demanded. “Tell me exactly what your
impressions are.”
“I feel as if there was an earthquake in my skull and all sorts of
pictures flying about, and exploded pieces of drums and trumpets, and
kings and queens. I think Carlyle must have been made on purpose to
write the French Revolution. It was—as if—there was a great picture of
it made on the atmosphere, and when he was born it passed into him.”
“Upon my word,” he said, “you are a degree or two removed from the
letters of bread and milk. You are a very remarkable kid. Sit down.”
Patience took the chair beside him. “He made my head ache,” she added.
“I feel as if it had been hammered.”
“I don’t wonder. Older heads have felt the same way. What’s your name?”
“Patience Sparhawk.”
“Tell me all about yourself.”
“Oh, there isn’t much to tell,” and she frowned heavily.
“Don’t look so tragic—you alarm me. I’m convinced there is a great
deal. Come, I want to know.”
Patience gave a few inane particulars. The old gentleman snorted. “It’s
evident you’ve never been interviewed,” he said grimly. “Now, I’ll tell
you who I am, and then you won’t mind talking about yourself. There’s
nothing so catching as egotism. My name is James E. Field. I own one of
the great newspapers of New York, of which I am also editor-in-chief. Do
you know what that means? Well, if you don’t, let me tell you. It is to
be a man more powerful than the President of the United States, for he
can make presidents, which is something the president himself can’t do.
He knows more about people’s private affairs than any of intimate
relationship; he has his finger on the barometer of his readers’ brain;
he can make them sensational or sober, intellectually careless or
exacting; he can keep them in ignorance of all that is best worth
knowing of the world’s affairs, by snubbing the great events and
tendencies of the day and vitiating their brain with local crimes and
scandals, or he can illumine their minds and widen their brain cells by
not only enlarging upon what every intelligent person should wish to
know, but by making such matter of profound interest; he can ignore
science, or enlighten several hundred thousand people; he can add to the
happiness of the human race by exposing abuses and hidden crime, or he
can accept hush money and let the sore fester; he can lash the unrest of
the lower classes, or chloroform it; he can use the sledge hammer, the
rapier, and the vitriol, or give over his editorial page to windy
nothings; he can demolish political bosses, or prolong their career. In
short, his power is greater than Alexander’s was, for he is a general of
minds instead of brute force.”
“My goodness gracious!” exclaimed Patience. “What sort of a paper have
you got?”
He laughed. “Wait until you’ve lived in New York awhile and you’ll find
out. Its name is the ‘Day,’ and it has made a president or two, and made
one or two others wish they’d never been born. By the way, I didn’t tell
you much about myself, did I? The auxiliary subject carried me away. I’m
married, and have several sons and daughters, and am off for a rest—not
from the family but from the ‘Day.’ I’ve been round the world. That will
do for the present. Tell me all about Monterey.”
With consummate skill he extracted the history of her sixteen years. On
some points she fought him so obstinately that he inferred what she
would not tell. He ended by becoming profoundly interested. He was a man
of enthusiasms, which sometimes wrote themselves in vitriol, at others
in the milk of human kindness. His keen unerring brain, which Patience
fancied flashed electric search lights, comprehended that it had
stumbled upon a character waging perpetual war with the pitiless Law of
Circumstance, and that the issue might serve as a plot for one of the
mental dramas of the day.
“Your experience and the bad blood in you, taken in connection with your
bright and essentially modern mind, will make a sort of intellectual
anarchist of you,” he said. “I doubt if you take kindly to the domestic
life. You will probably go in for the social problems, and ride some
polemical hobby for eight or ten years, at the end of which time you
will be inclined to look upon your sex as the soubrettes of history.
Your enthusiasm may make you a faddist, but your common sense may aid
you in the perception of several eternal truths which the women of
to-day in their blind bolt have overlooked.”
A moment later he repented his generalisations, for Patience had
demanded full particulars. Nevertheless, he gave her many a graphic
outline of the various phases of current history, and was the most
potent educational force that she had yet encountered. She preferred him
to books and admired him without reserve, trotting at his heels like a
small dog. His unique and virile personality, his brilliant and
imperious mind, magnetised the modern essence of which she was made.
There was nothing of the old-fashioned intellectual type about him. He
might have induced the coining of the word “brainy,”—he certainly typed
it. Although he had the white hair and the accumulated wisdom of his
years, he had the eyes of youth and the fist of vigour at any age. One
day when two natives looked too long upon Patience’s blondinity, as she
and Mr. Field were exploring a banana grove during one of their brief
excursions on shore, he cracked their skulls together as if they had
been two cocoanuts.
Patience laughed as the blacks dropped sullenly behind. “How funny that
they should admire me,” she said. “I’m not pretty.”
“Well, you’re white. Besides, there is one thing more fascinating than
beauty, and that is a strong individuality. It radiates and magnetises.”
“Have I all that?” Patience blushed with delight.
He laughed good-naturedly. “Yes, I’ll stake a good deal that you have.
You may even be pretty some day; that is, if you ever get those freckles
off.”
Inherent as was her passion for nature, she enjoyed the rich beauty of
the tropics the more for the companionship of a mind skilled in
observation and interpretation. It was her first mental comprehension of
the law of duality.
As they approached New York harbour Mr. Field said to her: “I think I’ll
have to make a newspaper woman of you. When you have finished your
education, don’t think of settling down to any such humdrum career as
that of the school-teacher. Come to me, and I’ll put you through your
paces. If I’m not more mistaken than I’ve been yet, I’ll turn out a
newspaper woman that will induce a mightier blast of woman’s horn. Think
you’d like it?”
“I’d like to be with you,” said Patience, on the verge of tears.
“Sha’n’t I see you again till I’m eighteen?”
“No, I don’t want to see or hear from you again until you’ve kneaded
that brain of yours into some sort of shape by three years of hard
study. Then I’ll go to work on a good foundation. You haven’t told me if
you’ll take a try at it.”
“Of course I will. Do you think I want to be a school-teacher? I should
think it would be lovely to be a newspaper woman.”
“Well, it isn’t exactly lovely, but it is a good training in the art of
getting along without adjectives. Now look round you and I’ll explain
this harbour; and don’t you brag any more about your San Francisco
harbour.”
They entered through The Narrows, between the two toy forts. A few lone
sentries paced the crisp snow on the heights of Staten Island, and
looked in imminent danger of tumbling down the perpendicular lawns. The
little stone windows of the earthen redoubts seemed to wink confidently
at each other across the water, and loomed superciliously above the
forts on the water’s edge. Long Island, had the repose of a giant that
had stretched his limbs in sleep, unmindful of the temporary hamlets on
his swelling front. Staten Island curved and uplifted herself
coquettishly under her glittering garb and crystal woods. Far away the
faint line of the New Jersey shore, looking like one unbroken city on a
hundred altitudes, hovered faintly under its mist. The river at its base
was a silver ribbon between a mirage and a stupendous castle of seven
different architectures surmounted by a golden dome—which same was New
York and the dome of a newspaper. Then a faint fairy-like bridge,
delicate as a cobweb, sprang lightly across another river to a city of
walls with windows in them—which same was Brooklyn. Under the shadow of
the arches was a baby island fortified with what appeared to be a large
Dutch cheese out of which the mice had gnawed their way with much
regularity. The great bay, blue as liquid sapphire, was alive with craft
of every design: rowboats scuttled away from the big outgoing steamers;
sails, white as the snow on the heights, bellied in the sharp wind;
yellow and red ferry boats gave back long symmetrical curves of white
smoke; gaunt ships with naked spars lay at rest. On Liberty Island the
big girl pointed solemnly upward as if reminding the city on the waters
of the many mansions in the invisible stars. Snow clouds were scudding
upward from the east, but overhead there was plentiful gold and blue.
Patience gazed through Mr. Field’s glass, enraptured, and promised not
to brag. As they swung toward the dock he laid his hand kindly on hers.
“Now don’t think I’m callous,” he said, “because I part from you without
any apparent regret. You are going to be in good hands during the rest
of your early girlhood, and I could be of no assistance to you; and I am
a very busy man. Let me tell you that you have made this month a good
deal shorter than it would otherwise have been; and when we meet again
you won’t have to introduce yourself. There are my folks, and there goes
the gang-plank. Good-bye, and God bless you.”
                                   II
Patience leaned over the upper railing, looking at the expectant crowd
on the wharf, wondering when the captain would remember her. She felt a
strong inclination to run after Mr. Field. As he receded up the wharf,
surrounded by his family, he turned and waved his hand to her.
“Why couldn’t he have been Mr. Foord’s brother or something?” she
thought resentfully. “I think he might have adopted me.”
As the crowd thinned she noticed two elderly women standing a few feet
from the vessel, alternately inspecting the landed passengers and the
decks. One was a very tall slender and graceful woman, possessed of that
subtle quality called style, despite her unfashionable attire. In her
dark regular face were the remains of beauty, and although nervous and
anxious, it wore the seal of gentle blood. Her large black eyes
expressed a curious commingling of the spiritual and the human. She was
probably sixty years old. At her side was a woman some ten years
younger, of stouter and less elastic figure, with a strong dark kind
intelligent face and an utter disregard of dress. She carried several
bundles.
“Oh, hasn’t she come?” cried the elder woman. “Can she have died at sea?
I am sure the dear Lord wouldn’t let anything happen to her. Dear
sister, do you see her?”
The other woman, who was also looking everywhere except at Patience,
replied in a round cheerful voice: “No, not yet, but I feel sure she is
there. The captain hasn’t had time to bring her on shore. The Lord tells
me that it is all right.”
“One of those is Miss Tremont,” thought Patience, “I may as well go
down. They appear to be frightfully religious, but they have nice
faces.”
She ran down to the lower deck, then across the gang-plank.
“I’m Patience Sparhawk,” she said; “are you—” The older woman uttered a
little cry, caught her in her arms, and kissed her. “Oh, you dear little
thing!” she exclaimed, and kissed her again. “How I’ve prayed the dear
Lord to bring you safely, and He has, praise His holy name. Oh, I am so
glad to see you. I do love children so. We’ll be so happy together—you
and I and Him—and, oh, I’m so glad to see you.”
Patience, breathless, but much gratified, kissed her warmly.
“Don’t forget me,” exclaimed the other lady. She had a singularly hearty
voice and a brilliant smile. Patience turned to her dutifully, and
received an emphatic kiss.
“This is my dear friend, my dear sister in the Lord, Miss Beale,
Patience,” said Miss Tremont, flurriedly, “and she wanted to see you
almost as much as I did.”
“Indeed I did,” said Miss Beale, breezily. “I too love little girls.”
“I’m sure you’re both very kind,” said Patience, helplessly. She hardly
knew how to meet so much effusion. But something cold and old within her
seemed to warm and thaw.
“You dear little thing,” continued Miss Tremont. “Are you cold? That is
a very light coat you have on.”
Patience was not dressed for an eastern winter, but her young blood and
curiosity kept her warm.
“Here comes the captain,” she said. “Oh, no, I’m all right. I like the
cold.”
The captain, satisfying himself that his charge was in the proper hands,
offered to send her trunk to Mariaville by express, and Patience, wedged
closely between the two ladies, boarded a street car.
“You know,” exclaimed Miss Tremont, “I knew the Lord would bring you to
me safely in spite of the perils of the ocean. Every night and every
morning I prayed: Dear Lord, don’t let anything happen to her,—and I
knew He wouldn’t.”
“Does He always do what you tell Him?” asked Patience.
“Almost everything I ask Him,—that is to say, when He thinks best. Dear
Patience, if you knew how He looks out for me—and it is well He sees
fit, for dear knows I have a time taking care of myself. Why, He even
takes care of my purse. I’m always leaving it round, and He always sends
it back to me—from counters and trains and restaurants and everywhere.
And when I start in the wrong direction He always whispers in my ear in
time. Why, once I had to catch a certain train to Philadelphia, where I
was to preside at a convention, and I’d taken the wrong street car, and
when I jumped off and took the right one, the driver said I couldn’t
possibly get to the ferry in time. So I just shut my eyes and prayed;
and then I told the driver that it would be all right, as I had asked
the Lord to see that I got there in time. The driver laughed, and said:
‘W-a-a-l, I guess the Lord’ll go back on you this time.’ But I caught
that ferry-boat. He—the Lord—made it five minutes late. And it’s
always the same. He takes care of me, praised be His name.”
“You must feel as if He were your husband,” said Patience, too gravely
to be suspected of irreverence.
“Why, He is. Doesn’t the Bible say—” But the car began to rattle over
the badly paved streets, and the quotation was lost.
Patience looked eagerly through the windows at purlieus of indescribable
ugliness; but it was New York, a city greater than San Francisco, and
she found even its youthful old age picturesque. The dense throng of
people in Sixth Avenue and the immense shop windows induced expressions
of rapture.
“You don’t live here, do you?” she said with a sigh.
“Oh, Mariaville is much nicer than New York,” replied Miss Beale, in her
enthusiastic way. “I hate a great crowded city. It baffles you so when
you try to do good.”
“Still they do say that reform work is more systematised here, dear
sister.”
“Forty-second Street,” shouted the conductor, and they changed cars. A
few moments later they were pulling out of the Grand Central Station for
Mariaville.
Miss Beale had asked the conductor to turn a seat, and Patience faced
her new friends. As they left the tunnel she caught sight of a tiny bow
of white ribbon each wore on her coat.
“Why do you wear that?” she asked.
“Why, we’re W. C. T. U’s,” replied Miss Beale.
“Wctus?”
“Temperance cranks,” said Miss Tremont, smiling.
“Temperance cranks?”
“Why, have you never heard of the Woman’s Christian Temperance Union?”
asked Miss Beale, a chill breathing over her cordial voice. “The
movement has reason to feel encouraged all through the West.”
“I’ve never heard of it. They don’t have it in Monterey, and I’ve not
been much in San Francisco.”
“She’s such a child,” said Miss Tremont. “How could she know of it out
there? But now I know she is going to be one of our very best Y’s.”
“Y’s?” asked Patience, helplessly. She wondered if this was the “fad”
Mr. Field had predicted for her, then recalled that he had alluded once
to the “Temperance movement,” but could not remember his explanation, if
he had made any. Doubtless she had evaded a disagreeable topic. But now
that it was evidently to be a part of her new life she made no attempt
to stem Miss Tremont’s enthusiasm.
“The Y’s are the young women of the Union; we are the W’s. It is our
lifework, Patience, and I am sure you will become as much interested in
it as we are, and be proud to wear the white ribbon. We have done so
much good, and expect to do much more, with the dear Lord’s help. It is
slow work, but we shall conquer in the end, for He is with us.”
“What do you do,—forbid people to sell liquor?”
Both ladies laughed. They were not without humour, and their experience
had developed it. “No,” said Miss Tremont, “we don’t waste our time like
that.” She gave an enthusiastic account of what the Union had
accomplished. Her face glowed; her fine head was thrown back; her dark
eyes sparkled. Patience thought she must have been a beautiful girl. She
had a full voice with odd notes of protest and imperious demand which
puzzled her young charge. One would have supposed that she was
constantly imploring favours, and yet her air suggested natural hauteur,
unexterminated by cultivated humility.
“I should think it was a good idea,” said Patience, with perfect
sincerity.
“Oh, there’s dear Sister Watt,” cried Miss Tremont, and she rose
precipitately, and crossing the aisle sat down beside a careworn
anxious-eyed woman who also wore the white ribbon.
“Come over by me until Miss Tremont comes back,” said Miss Beale, with
her brilliant smile. “Tell me, don’t you love her already? Oh, you have
no idea how good she is. She is heart and soul in her work, and just
lives for the Lord. She sometimes visits twenty poor families a week,
besides her Temperance class, her sewing school, her Bible Readings, her
Bible class, and all the religious societies, of which she is the most
active worker. She is also the Mariaville agent for the Society for
Prevention of Cruelty to Children, and trustee of the Bible Society. You
should hear her pray. I have heard all the great revivalists, but I have
never heard anything like Miss Tremont’s prayers. How I envy you living
with her! You’ll hear her twice a day, and sometimes oftener. She has a
nice house on the outskirts of Mariaville. Her father left it to her
twenty years ago, and she dedicated it to the Lord at once. It is
headquarters for church meetings of all sorts. She has a Bible reading
one afternoon a week. Any one can go, even a servant, for Miss Tremont,
like all true followers of the Lord, is humble.”
Patience reflected that she had never seen any one look less humble than
Miss Beale. In spite of her old frock she conveyed with unmistakable if
unconscious emphasis that she possessed wealth and full knowledge of its
power.
“You look so happy,” Patience said, her curiosity regarding Miss Tremont
blunted for the present. “Are you?”
“Happy? Of course I am. I’ve never known an unhappy moment in my life.
When my dear parents died, I only envied them. And have I not perfect
health? Is not every moment of my time occupied?—why, I only sleep six
hours out of the twenty-four. And Him. Do I not work for Him, and is He
not always with me?”
“They are so funny about God,” thought Patience. “She talks as if He
were her beau; and Miss Tremont as if He were her old man she’d been
jogging along with for forty years or so.—Do you live alone?” she
asked.
“Yes—that is, I board.”
“And don’t you ever feel lonesome?”
“Never. Is not He always with me?” Her strong brown face was suddenly
illuminated. “Is He not my lover? Is He not always at my side,
encouraging me and whispering of His love, night and day? Why, I can
almost hear His voice, feel His hand. How could I be lonesome even on a
desert island with no work to do?”
Patience gasped. The extraordinary simplicity of this woman of fifty
fascinated her whom life and heredity had made so complex. But she moved
restlessly, and felt an impulse to thrust out her legs and arms. She had
a sensation of being swamped in religion.
“I shouldn’t think you’d like boarding,” she said irrelevantly.
“I don’t like it particularly, but it gives me more time for my work. I
make myself comfortable, I can tell you, for I have my own bed with two
splendid mattresses,—my landlady’s are the hardest things you ever
felt,—and all my own furniture and knick-knacks. And I have my own tub,
and every morning even in dead of winter, I take a cold bath. And I
don’t wear corsets—”
“Mariaville,” called the conductor.
“Oh, here we are,” cried Miss Tremont. She made a wild dive for her
umbrella and bag, seized Patience by the hand, and rushed up the aisle,
followed leisurely by Miss Beale.
The snow was falling heavily. Patience had watched it drift and swirl
over the Hudson, and should have liked to give it her undivided
attention.
As they left the station they were greeted by a chorus of shrieks: “Have
a sleigh? Have a sleigh?”
“What do you think, sister?” asked Miss Tremont, dubiously. “Do you
think Patience can walk two miles in this snow? I don’t like to spend
money on luxuries that I should give to the Lord.”
“Perhaps the sleigh man needs it,” said Patience, who had no desire to
walk two miles in a driving storm.
“We’d better have a sleigh,” said Miss Beale, decidedly. “We will each
pay half.”
“But why should you pay half,” said Miss Tremont, in her protesting
voice, “when there are three of us?”
“I will pay for myself,” said Patience. “Mr. Foord gave me a twenty
dollar gold piece, and I haven’t spent it.”
“Oh, dear child!” exclaimed Miss Tremont. “As if I’d let you.”
“Come, get in,” said Miss Beale; “we’ll be snowed under, here.”
And a few minutes later Patience, on the front seat, was enjoying her
first sleigh-ride. She slid down under the fur robe, and winking the
snow stars from her lashes, looked out eagerly upon Mariaville. The town
rose from the Hudson in a succession of irregular precipitous terraces.
The trees were skeletons, the houses old, but the effect was very
picturesque; and the dancing crystals, the faint music of bells from far
and near, the wide steep streets, delighted a mind magnetic for novelty.
They left Miss Beale before a pretty house, standing in a frozen garden,
then climbed to the top of a hill, slid away to the edge of the town,
and drew rein before an old-fashioned white one-winged house, which
stood well back in a neglected yard behind walnut-trees and hemlocks.
Beyond, closing the town, were the stark woods. Opposite was a prim
little grove in which the snow stars were dancing.
“Here we are,” said Miss Tremont, climbing out. “Welcome home, Patience
dear.” She paid the man, and hurried down the path. The door was opened
by an elderly square-faced woman, who looked sharply at Patience, then
smiled graciously.
“Patience, this is Ellen. She takes good care of me. Come in. Come in.”
The narrow hall ran through the main building, and was unfurnished but
for a table and the stair. Miss Tremont led the way into a large double
room of comfortable temperature, although no fire was visible. Bright
red curtains covered the windows, a neat black carpet sprinkled with
flowers the floor. The chairs were stiffly arranged, but upholstered
cheerfully, the tables and mantels crowded with an odd assortment of
cheap and handsome ornaments. The papered walls were a mosaic of family
portraits. In the back parlour were a bookcase, a piano piled high with
hymn-books, and a dozen or so queer little pulpit chairs. A door opened
from the front parlour into a faded but hospitable dining-room.
Patience for the first time in her life experienced the enfolding of the
home atmosphere, an experience denied to many for ever and ever. She
turned impulsively, and throwing her arms about Miss Tremont, kissed and
hugged her.
“Somehow I feel all made over,” she said apologetically, and getting
very red. “But it is so nice—and you are so nice—and oh, it is all so
different!”
And Miss Tremont, enraptured, first wished that this forlorn homely
little waif was her very own, then vowed that neither should ever
remember that she was not, and half carried her up to the bedroom
prepared for her, a white fresh little room overlooking the shelving
town.
                                  III
The next afternoon a sewing woman came and cut down an old-fashioned but
handsome fur-lined cloak of Miss Tremont’s to Patience’s diminutive
needs. When Miss Tremont returned home, after a hard day’s work, she
brought with her a hood, a pair of woollen gloves, and a pair of
arctics; and Patience felt that she could weather a New York winter.
But Patience gave little attention to her clothes. When she was not
watching the snow she was studying the steady stream of people who
called at all hours, and invariably talked “church” and “temperance.”
The atmosphere was so charged with religion that she was haunted by an
uneasy prescience of a violent explosion during which Miss Tremont and
her friends would sail upward, leaving her among the débris.
Her coat finished, she went in town with Miss Tremont to Temperance
Hall. The snow had ceased to fall. The sun rode solitary on a cold blue
sky, the ground was white and hard. The bare trees glittered in their
crystal garb, icicles jewelled the eaves of the houses. The telegraph
wires, studded with pendent spheres, looked like a vast diamond necklace
of many strings which only Nature was mighty enough to wear. The hills
were snowdrifts. The Hudson, far below, moved sluggishly under great
blocks of ice. The Palisades were black and white. Miss Tremont and
Patience walked rapidly, their frozen breath waving before them in
fantastic shapes. It was all very delightful to Patience, who thrust her
hands into her deep pockets and would have scorned to ride. At times she
danced; new blood, charged with electricity, seemed shooting through her
veins. Miss Tremont’s older teeth clattered occasionally. She bent
forward slightly, her brow contracted over eyes which seemed ever
seeking something, her long legs carrying her swiftly and with
surprising grace. Patience had solved the enigma of her voice after
hearing her pray, and she supposed that her eyes were on loyal watch for
the miseries of the world.
After a time they descended an almost perpendicular hill to the business
part of the town. Beyond a few level streets the ground rose again,
wooded and thickly built upon. On the left was another hill, which, Miss
Tremont informed her, was Hog Heights, the quarter of the poor.
The streets in the valley twisted and doubled like the curves of an
angry python. In the centre was a square which might have been called
Rome, since all ways led to it.
Temperance Hall, a building of Christian-like humility, stood on a back
street flanked by many low-browed shops. On the first floor were the
parlour, reading-room, and refectory, on the second a large hall, on the
third bedrooms. The hall was already half full of boys and girls, kept
in order by the matron, Mrs. Blair, a middle-aged woman with the
expression of one who stands no nonsense.
“Now, Patience,” said Miss Tremont, “you listen attentively, and next
time you can take Mrs. Blair’s place.”
The occasion was the weekly assemblage of the Loyal Legion children, who
were being educated in the ways of temperance. Miss Tremont opened with
the Lord’s Prayer, which she invested with all its meaning; then the
children sang from a temperance hymn-book, and the lesson began. Miss
Tremont read a series of questions appurtenant to the inevitable results
of unholy indulgence, to which Mrs. Blair read the answers, which in
turn were repeated by the children. Then they sang “Down with King
Alcohol,” a minister came in and made a dramatic address, and the
children, some of whom were attentive and some extremely naughty, filed
out.
“I only come on alternate Fridays,” said Miss Tremont, as they went
downstairs; “Sister Beale takes the other. Come and see our
reading-room. These are our boarders,” indicating several prim old maids
that sat in the front room by the window.
In the dining-room a half dozen tramps were imbibing free soup. The
reading-room was empty.
                                   IV
Before a week had passed Patience was so busy that her old life slept as
heavily as a bear in winter. She passed her difficult examinations and
entered the High School, selecting the three years course, which
included French, German, mathematics, the sciences, literature, and
rhetoric.
The recesses and evenings were spent in study, the afternoons in
assisting Miss Tremont; occasionally she snatched an hour to write to
her friends in California. Besides the temperance work, she had a class
in the church sewing school, kept the books of various societies, and
occasionally visited the poor on Hog Heights. The work did not interest
her, but she was glad to satisfactorily repay Miss Tremont’s
hospitality. But had she wished to protest she would have realised its
uselessness: she was carried with the tide. It might be said that Miss
Tremont was the tide. Her enthusiasm had no reflex action, and tore
through obstacles like a mill-race. When night came she was so weary
that more than once Patience offered to put her to bed; but the offer
was declined with a curious mixture of religious fervour and hauteur.
Miss Tremont had none of the ordinary vanity of woman, but she resented
the imputation that she could not work for the Lord as ardently at sixty
as she had at forty.
When she prayed Patience listened with bated breath. A torrent of
eloquence boiled from her lips. All the shortcomings and needs of
unregenerate Mariaville, individual and collective, were laid down with
a vehement precision which could leave the Lord little doubt of His
obligations. The Temperance Cause was rehearsed with a passion which
would have thrilled the devil. Sounding through all was a wholly
unselfconscious note of command, as when one pleads with the pocket of
an intimate friend for some worthy cause.
Patience saw so many disreputable people at this time that her mother’s
pre-eminence was extinguished. They had a habit of commanding the
hospitalities of Miss Tremont’s barn, sure of two meals and a night’s
lodging. Miss Tremont insisted upon their attendance at evening prayers,
and Patience assumed the task of persuading them to clean up. Her
methods were less gentle than Miss Tremont’s: when they refused to wash
she turned the hose on them.
Projected suddenly into the dry bracing cold of an eastern winter she
quickly became robust. Before spring had come, her back was straight and
a faint colour was in her rounding cheeks. If there had been time to
think about it, or any one to tell her, she would have discovered that
she was growing pretty. But at this time, despite the distant advances
of the High School boys, Patience found no leisure for vanity. Sometimes
she paused long enough to wonder if she had any individuality left; if
environment was not stronger than heredity after all; if immediate
impressions could not ever efface those of the past, no matter how
deeply the latter may have been etched into the plastic mind. But she
was quite conscious that she was happy, despite the vague restlessness
and longings of youth. She loved Miss Tremont with all the sudden
expansion of a long repressed temperament endowed with a tragic capacity
for passionate affection. In Monterey the iron mould of reserve into
which circumstance had forced her nature, had cramped and warped what
love she had felt for Mr. Foord and Rosita; but in this novel
atmosphere, where love enfolded her, where everybody respected her, and
knew nothing of her past, where there was not a word nor an occurrence
to remind her of the ugly experiences of her young life, she quickly
became a normal being, living, belatedly, along the large and generous
lines of her nature.
She had no friends of her own age with whom to discuss the problems dear
to the heart of developing woman. The girls at the High School rarely
talked during recess, and she left hurriedly the moment the scholars
were dismissed for the day. The “Y’s” she persistently refused to join,
as well as the young people’s societies of Miss Tremont’s church.
“I’ll be your helper in everything,” she said to her perplexed guardian;
“but those girls bore me, and, you know, I really haven’t time for
them.”
And Miss Tremont, despite the fact that Patience gave no sign of
spiritual thaw, was the most doting of old maid parents. After the first
few weeks she ceased to dig in Patience’s soul for the stunted seeds of
Christianity, finding that she only irritated her, and trusting to the
daily sprinkling of habit and example to promote their ultimate growth.
                                   V
With summer came a cessation of school, Loyal Legion, and sewing school
duties; but the Poor took no vacation and gave none. Nevertheless,
Patience had far more leisure, and borrowed many books from the town
library. She read much of Hugo and Balzac and Goethe, and in the new
intellectual delight forgot herself more completely than in her work.
Moreover, the town was very beautiful in summer, and she spent many
hours rambling along the shadowy streets whose venerable trees shut the
sunlight from the narrow side ways. The gardens too were full of trees;
and the town from a distance looked like a densely wooded hillside, a
riot of green, out of which housetops showed like eggs in a nest. Over
some of the steep old streets the maples met, growing denser and denser
down in the perspective, until closed by the flash of water.
The woods on the slope of the Hudson were thick with great trees
dropping a leafy curtain before the brilliant river, and full of
isolated nooks where a girl could read and dream, unsuspected of the
chance pedestrian.
After one long drowsy afternoon by a brook in a hollow of the woods,
Patience returned home to find a carriage standing before the door. It
was a turnout of extreme elegance. The grey horses were thoroughbreds; a
coachman in livery sat on the box; a footman stood on the sidewalk. She
looked in wonder. Miss Tremont had no time for the fine people of
Mariaville, and they had ceased to call on her long since. Moreover,
Patience knew every carriage in the town, and this was not of them.
She went rapidly into the house, youthfully eager for a new experience.
Miss Tremont was seated on the sofa in the front parlour, holding the
hand of a tall handsomely gowned woman. Patience thought, as she stood
for a moment unobserved, that she had never seen so cold a face. It was
the face of a woman of fifty, oval and almost regular. The mouth was a
straight line. The clear pale eyes looked like the reflection of the
blue atmosphere on icicles. The skin was as smooth as a girl’s, the
brown hair parted and waved, the tall figure slender and superbly
carried. She was smiling and patting Miss Tremont’s hand, but there was
little light in her eyes.
As Patience entered, she turned her head and regarded her without
surprise; she had evidently heard of her. Miss Tremont’s face illumined,
and she held out her hand.
“This is Patience,” she said triumphantly. “I haven’t told you half
about the dear child. Patience, this is my cousin, Mrs. Gardiner Peele.”
Mrs. Gardiner Peele bent her head patronisingly, and Patience hated her
violently.
“I am glad you have a companion,” said the lady, coldly. “But how is it
you haven’t the white ribbon on her?”
Miss Tremont blushed. “Oh, I can’t control Patience in all things,” she
said, in half angry deprecation. “She just won’t wear the ribbon.”
Mrs. Peele smiled upon Patience for the first time. It was a wintry
light, but it bespoke approval. “I wish she could make you take it off,”
she said to her relative. “That dreadful, dreadful badge. How can you
wear it?—you—”
“Now, cousin,” said Miss Tremont, laughing good-naturedly, “we won’t go
over all that again. You know I’m a hopeless crank. All I can do is to
pray for you.”
“Thank you. I don’t doubt I need it, although I attend church quite as
regularly as you could wish.”
“I know you are good,” said Miss Tremont, with enthusiasm, “and of
course I don’t expect everybody to be as interested in Temperance as I
am. But I do wish you loved the world less and the Lord more.”
Mrs. Peele gave a low, well modulated laugh. “Now, Harriet, I want you
to be worldly for a few minutes. I have brought you back two new gowns
from Paris, and I want you, when you come to visit me next week, to wear
them. I have had them trimmed with white ribbon bows so that no one will
notice one more or less—”
“I’m not ashamed of my white ribbon,” flashed out Miss Tremont, then
relented. “You dear good Honora. Yes, I’ll wear them if they’re not too
fashionable.”
“Oh, I studied your style. And let me tell you, Harriet Tremont, that
fashionable gowns are what you should be wearing. It does provoke me so
to see you—”
But Miss Tremont leaned over and kissed her short. “Now what’s the use
of talking to an old crank like me? I’m a humble servant of my dear
Lord, and I couldn’t be anything else if I had a million. But you dear
thing, I’m so glad to see you once more. You do look so well. Tell me
all about the children.”
Patience, quite forgotten, listened to the conversation with deep
interest. There was a vague promise of variety in this new advent. As
she watched the woman, who seemed to have brought with her something of
the atmosphere of all that splendid existence of which she had longingly
read, she was stirred with a certain dissatisfaction: some dormant chord
was struck—as on the day she drove by Del Monte. When Mrs. Peele arose
to go, she thought that not Balzac himself had ever looked upon a more
elegant woman. Even Patience’s untrained eye recognised that those long
simple folds, those so quiet textures, were of French woof and make. And
the woman’s carriage was like unto that of the fictional queen. She
nodded carelessly to Patience, and swept out. When Miss Tremont returned
after watching her guest drive away, Patience pounced upon her.
“Who is she?” she demanded. “And why didn’t you tell me you had such
a swell for a cousin?”
“Did I never tell you?” asked Miss Tremont, wonderingly. “Why, I was
sure I had often talked of Honora. But I’m so busy I suppose I forgot.”
She sat down and fanned herself, smiling. “Honora Tremont is my first
cousin. We used to be great friends until she married a rich man and
became so dreadfully fashionable. The Lord be praised, she has always
loved me; but she lives a great deal abroad, and spends her winters,
when she is here, in New York. They have a beautiful place on the
Hudson, Peele Manor, that has been in the family for nearly three
hundred years. Mr. Peele is an eminent lawyer. I don’t know him very
well. He doesn’t talk much; I suppose he has to talk so much in Court.
I’ve not seen the children for a year. I always thought them pretty
badly spoiled, particularly Beverly. May isn’t very bright. But I always
liked Hal—short for Harriet, after me—better than any of them. She is
about nineteen now. May is eighteen and Beverly twenty-four.
“Then there is Honora, cousin Honora’s sister Mary’s child, and the
tallest woman I ever saw. Her parents died when she was a little thing
and left her without a dollar. Honora took her, and has treated her like
her own children. Sometimes I think she is very much under her
influence. I don’t know why, but I never liked her. She is Beverly’s
age. Oh!” she burst out, “just think! I have got to go to Peele Manor
for a week. I promised. I couldn’t help it. And oh, I do dread it. They
are all so different, and they don’t sympathise with my work. Much as I
love them I’m always glad to get away. Wasn’t it kind and good of her to
bring me two dresses from Paris?”
Patience shrewdly interpreted the prompting of Mrs. Peele’s generosity,
but made no comment.
Miss Tremont drew a great sigh: “My temperance work—my poor—what will
they do without me? Maria Twist gets so mad when I don’t read the Bible
to her twice a week. Patience, you will have to stay in Temperance Hall.
I shouldn’t like to think of you here alone. I do wish Honora had asked
you too—”
“I wouldn’t go for worlds. When do you think your dresses will come? I
do so want to see a real Paris dress.”
“She said they’d come to-morrow. Oh, to think of wearing stiff tight
things. Well, if they are uncomfortable or too stylish I just won’t wear
them, that’s all.”
“You just will, auntie dear. You’ll not look any less fine than those
people, or I’ll not go near Hog Heights.”
Miss Tremont kissed her, grateful for the fondness displayed. “Well,
well, we’ll see,” she said.
But the next day, when the two handsome black gowns lay on the bed of
the spare room, she shook her head with flashing eyes.
“I won’t wear those things,” she cried. “Why, they were made for a
society woman, not for an humble follower of the Lord. I should be
miserable in them.”
Patience, who had been hovering over the gowns,—one of silk grenadine
trimmed with long loops of black and white ribbon, the other of satin
with a soft knot of white ribbon on the shoulder and another at the back
of the high collar,—came forward and firmly divested Miss Tremont of
her alpaca. She lifted the heavy satin gown with reverent hands and
slipped it over Miss Tremont’s head, then hooked it with deft fingers.
“There!” she exclaimed. “You look like a swell at last. Just what you
ought to look like.”
Miss Tremont glanced at the mirror with a brief spasm of youthful
vanity. The rich fashionable gown became her long slender figure, her
unconscious pride of carriage, far better than did her old alpaca and
merino frocks. But she shook her head immediately, her eyes flashing
under a quick frown.
“The idea of perching a white bow like a butterfly on my shoulder and
another at the back of my neck, as if I had a scar. It’s an insult to
the white ribbon. And this collar would choke me. I can’t breathe. Take
it off! Take it off!”
“Not until I have admired you some more. You look just grand. If the
collar is too high, I’ll send for Mrs. Best, and we’ll cut it off and
sew some soft black stuff in the neck—although I just hate to. Auntie
dear, don’t you think you could stand it?”
Miss Tremont shook her head with decision. “I couldn’t. It hurts my old
throat. And how could I ever bend my head to get at my soup? And these
bows make me feel actually cross. If the dress can be made comfortable
I’ll wear it, for I’ve no right to disgrace Honora, nor would I hurt her
feelings by scorning her gowns; but I’ll not stand any such mockery as
these flaunting white things.”
Patience exchanged the satin for the grenadine gown. This met with more
