rising as he spoke. "I was inclined to think that Jasper had exaggerated
his account of the difficulties. I see now that he was correct. I have
only, in wishing you good-morning, to predict that you will yet regret
the manner in which you have treated your step-son."
"I will take my chance of that," said Mrs. Kent. "You may report to
Jasper that my only terms are unconditional submission."
"I will do so, madam; but you know, as well as I, what his answer will
be. His nature is too manly to submit to tyranny, even from his
step-mother."
"You are not over-polite, sir," said Mrs. Kent, angrily.
"I am truthful, madam," was the grave reply.
CHAPTER XV.
GOOD-BYE.
"Without exception, Jasper," said Mr. Miller, on his return, "I consider
your step-mother the most disagreeble woman I ever met."
Jasper could not help smiling at the look of disgust upon the features
of his father's friend.
"Then, sir, I infer that you did not succeed in your mission," he said.
"Succeed? No. She will offer no terms except unconditional submission on
your part."
"That I won't agree to." said Jasper, promptly.
"I don't blame you--not a particle," said Mr. Miller.
"So much is settled, then," said Jasper. "Now the question comes
up--what am I to do?"
"How old are you?"
"Nearly sixteen."
"Then five years must elapse before you come into possession of your
property?"
"Yes, sir."
"And for that length of time you are to be under the guardianship of
Mrs. Kent?"
"Yes, sir."
"It is unfortunate," said the old gentleman, shrugging his shoulders. "I
took the liberty to suggest to your step-mother that if the cares of a
guardian should prove burdensome to her I would assume them."
"What did she say?"
"She replied in a sarcastic manner, and avowed her determination to
remain your guardian."
"What would you advise me to do, then, Mr. Miller?"
"Before answering, Jasper, I will tell you a secret."
Jasper looked curious.
"Your father left in my hands a paper to be opened two years after his
death. It undoubtedly relates to you."
"What do you think it is?"
"It may relate to the guardianship, but that is only conjecture."
"Does my step-mother know of this?"
"Neither she nor anyone else, save you and myself."
"It will do us no good at present?"
"No; but it influences my advice. Go to school for the next two years. I
will advance the money to pay your bills. If at the end of that time the
paper is what I hope it is, you will then be able to pay me, and for the
balance of your minority I can become your guardian."
"I wish you might, Mr. Miller; but I don't think, under the
circumstances, I want to go back to school."
"What do you wish to do, Jasper?"
"I am young, and I would like to see something of the world. I would
like to imagine myself a poor boy, as I really am just now, and see if I
cannot make my own way."
"I hardly know what to say to that, Jasper. I am afraid you do not
appreciate the difficulties in your way."
"To battle against them will make me strong."
"Suppose you get in a tight place?"
"Then I will write to you for help."
"That's better. On this condition I will make no further opposition to
your wishes. But have you any money?"
"Ten dollars."
"Rather a small sum to begin the world with."
"Yes, sir. If you are willing to lend me fifty more I think I can get
along till I can earn some."
"Willingly. Where do you propose to go?"
"To the West. My father has a cousin, a lady, married, and living in a
small town on the banks of the Mississippi. I have never been to the
West. I should like to go out there and see if I can't find some
employment in that neighborhood."
"I suppose I must not object, but your plan appears to me rather
quixotic."
"You might not have thought so at my age, Mr. Miller."
"No; we look upon such things differently as we grow older. When do you
want to start?"
"To-morrow."
"Stay at my house till then."
"Thank you, sir. I will go home this afternoon and get my carpet-bag and
a few underclothes, and then I shall be ready to start to-morrow
morning."
Jasper did as proposed. He would gladly have dispensed with this call at
the house which had once been a home to him, but was so no longer; but
it was necessary to make it.
He caught sight of Tom Forbes near the house.
"Tom," he called out, "do you know if Mrs. Kent is at home?"
"No, Master Jasper, she went out riding, and her cub went with her."
"I am afraid you're not respectful, Tom," said Jasper, laughing.
"He don't deserve respect. He puts on as many airs as a prince. I
warrant he was poor enough before his mother took him home. What do you
think he said to me?"
"What was it?"
"'Look here, Tom, you harness the horse right up, do you hear? Don't
stand dawdling there, for I and mother are going out to ride.'"
"That sounds like Nicholas."
"You may be sure he ain't used to prosperity, or he wouldn't put on so
many airs!"
"Well, Tom, I'm glad Mrs. Kent is out. I don't want to meet her, nor
Nicholas, either."
"You'll see 'em at supper, won't you?"
"No; I shall not be here to supper."
"When are you coming back?"
"Not at all."
"You don't mean that, Master Jasper?"
"Yes, I do."
"Are you going to school?"
"No; I'm going out West."
"Out West?" exclaimed Tom Forbes, stopping work in surprise.
"Yes, Tom, I'm going out there to seek my fortune."
"But there ain't any need of that, Master Jasper. Didn't your father
leave you a fortune?"
"I'm not to have it till I'm twenty-one, and till then my step-mother is
my guardian. Now, I put it to you, Tom, can I stay at home to be treated
as you saw me treated this morning?"
"No, you can't, that's a fact. Master Jasper, I wish you'd take me with
you as your servant."
"As to that, Tom, I am in no position to have a servant; I've got to
work for my own living."
"And she here living on the fat of the land!" exclaimed Tom,
indignantly. "It's an outrageous shame!"
"Strong language, Tom," said Jasper, smiling. "Mind my amiable
step-mother doesn't hear you."
"I don't care if she does."
"Thank you for your offer, Tom, but I must go alone. Perhaps I shall
prosper out there. I hope so, at any rate."
"Have you got any money, Master Jasper? I've got a few dollars laid by.
If they'll do you any good you're welcome to take 'em. I shan't need
'em."
"Thank you, Tom," said Jasper, cordially grasping his toil-embrowned
hand, "but I am well provided for. Mr. Miller, my father's friend, is
mine, too. He has lent me some money, and will lend me more if I need
it."
"I'm glad of that. You'll always find friends."
Half an hour later, as Jasper was going up the street, with his
carpet-bag in one hand, he saw the open carriage approaching in which
Mrs. Kent and Nicholas were seated. He would liked to have escaped
observation, but there was no chance.
"Why, there's Jasper!" said Nicholas, "and he's got a carpet-bag in his
hand."
"Stop the carriage!" said Mrs. Kent, peremptorily.
Nicholas, who was driving, obeyed.
"Have you been to the house?" asked the step-mother.
"Yes," said Jasper.
"What does that carpet-bag mean?"
"It means that I am going away."
"Where? As your guardian, I demand to know!"
"As my guardian, will you provide for my expenses?"
"No."
"Then I don't feel called upon to tell you."
"You will repent this insubordination," said Mrs. Kent, angrily. "You
will yet return home in rags."
"Never!" answered Jasper, with emphasis. "Good-afternoon, Mrs. Kent."
"Drive on, Nicholas!" said Mrs. Kent, angrily. "How I hate that boy!"
she ejaculated.
"It strikes me, mother, you've got the best of it," said Nicholas.
"You've got his property, and as to his company, we can do without
that."
CHAPTER XVI.
AN UNPLEASANT ADVENTURE.
A week later Jasper was one of the passengers on a train bound for St.
Louis, and already within sixty miles of that flourishing city. He had
stopped over at Niagara and Cincinnati--a day or so at each place. He
gratified his desire to see the great cataract, and felt repaid for
doing so, though the two stops trenched formidably upon his small
capital. Indeed, at the moment when he is introduced anew to the
reader's notice he had but ten dollars remaining of the sum with which
he started. He was, however, provided, besides, with a through ticket to
St. Louis.
He had been sitting alone, when a stranger entering the car seated
himself in the vacant seat.
Looking up, Jasper noticed that he was a tall man, shabbily dressed,
with thin, sallow face and a swelling in the left cheek, probably
produced by a quid of tobacco.
"Good-mornin', colonel," said the stranger, sociably.
"Good-morning, sir," said Jasper, smiling. "I haven't the honor of being
a colonel."
"Haven't you, cap'n? Well, that ain't of no account. It'll come in time.
Where are you travelling?"
"To St. Louis."
"Ever been there afore?"
"No; this will be my first visit."
"You don't say! Where may you be from?"
"From New York State," answered Jasper, amused.
The stranger drew from his pocket a package of chewing tobacco and
passed it politely to Jasper.
"Help yourself, colonel," he said hospitably.
"No, thank you; I don't chew."
"Shoo, you don't say so! High time you began, then."
"I don't think I shall ever form the habit of chewing."
"Yes, you will, colonel; everybody does. Travellin' on business?"
"Well, not exactly," said Jasper, hesitatingly. "That is, I am looking
for a chance to go into business."
"Got any capital?" interjected the stranger, carelessly, squirting a
yellow stream upon the floor of the car.
"Oh, I don't expect to go into business for myself at present," said
Jasper, amused at the thought.
"No?" said the other, reflectively. "If you had five thousand dollars I
might take you into partnership."
"What is your business?" asked Jasper, with curiosity.
"Cotton," said the stranger. "I'm a cotton broker. I do a large
business."
"You don't look like it," thought Jasper, looking at his shabby costume.
"You don't want a clerk, do you?" asked our hero.
"Well, no, colonel. There ain't any vacancy now in my establishment. May
be soon."
Had Jasper felt favorably impressed with his companion he would have
inquired where in the city his place of business might be, but it did
not strike him that he should care to be in his employ.
He accordingly pulled out a copy of a popular magazine which he had
bought the day before, and began to read. The stranger bought a paper of
the train-boy, and engaged in a similar way. Fifteen minutes passed in
this way. At the end of that time the stranger rose leisurely, and with
a brief "Mornin', colonel," passed out of the car. Whether he got into
the next one or got out at the station which they were approaching
Jasper could not distinguish, nor did he feel specially interested in
the matter.
The time soon came when he felt his interest increased.
A few miles further on the conductor entered the car.
It was one of his usual rounds to look at tickets.
When he came up to Jasper, he said:
"Be lively now. Let me see your ticket."
"Isn't it in my hat?" asked Jasper, taking it off.
"No; did you put it there?"
"I thought I did," said our hero, surprised. "It was there when you last
passed round."
"Look in your pockets."
Jasper felt in all of them, but the missing ticket could not be found.
"It may have fallen on the floor," he said, and rising he looked under
the seat.
But in vain.
"Did you have any ticket?" asked the conductor, suspiciously.
"Certainly. You have looked at it yourself several times."
"You are mistaken; I got on at the last station."
"I have come all the way from Cincinnati," said Jasper, uncomfortably.
"I couldn't have come so far without a ticket. What shall I do?"
"You'll have to pay from the last station to St. Louis."
This was not very agreeable in the state of Jasper's finances.
"How much is it?" he asked.
"Two dollars."
Jasper felt for his pocket-book, when a new surprise awaited him. A look
of consternation swept over his countenance.
His pocket-book was gone.
"Don't keep me waiting," said the conductor, impatiently.
"My pocket-book is gone!" exclaimed our hero, gazing in blank dismay at
the expectant official.
"What?"
"I can't find my pocket-book."
"Look here, young man," said the conductor, roughly, "that's too thin."
"It's true!" said Jasper.
"It won't go down, young man. I've seen such customers as you before.
You're a beat!"
"A what?"
"A beat--a dead-beat, if you prefer it. Off you go at the next station!"
Jasper was greatly alarmed at the unexpected turn affairs had taken.
"Let me go to St. Louis, and I'll get money to pay you."
"It's no use," said the conductor, inexorably. "My orders are strict. If
you can't pay, you can't ride."
"But my pocket was picked," said Jasper, new light flashing upon him.
"There was a stranger who sat beside me a while ago. He must have taken
my ticket and money, too."
"Of course there was," said the conductor, with sarcasm. "That's the way
it usually happens. I'm used to such games, young man. It won't do you
any good. Out you go!"
"Let me go through the cars and see if I can't find the man that robbed
me. I'd know him in a minute."
"Well," said the conductor, relenting slightly, "be quick about it."
Jasper waited for no more. He rose from his seat and, carpet-bag in
hand, passed into the next car.
It proved to be the smoking car.
Groups of men were playing cards, and, as Jasper judged, were playing
for money. Among them, to his great joy, he recognized his shabby
companion, the cotton broker of St. Louis. The latter was playing with
three other men, black-bearded, and loud both in their dress and speech.
Without a moment's hesitation Jasper advanced and touched his late
companion on the shoulder.
The latter looked up, and without a sign of recognition said:
"What's wanted, sir?"
For the first time it struck Jasper that his errand was rather an
awkward one. How could he ask this man if he had taken his property?
"I beg your pardon, sir," said he, "but did you see anything of my
ticket and money?"
"What do you mean, stranger?"
"You were sitting by me a little while ago, in the rear car."
"I don't remember it."
"And I thought you might have seen my pocket-book and ticket."
"Well, I didn't," said the other, fiercely. "What made you think I did?"
"I can't find them."
"I don't know anything about them. General, it's your deal."
He turned abruptly away from Jasper, and the boy slowly withdrew to a
little distance, sorely puzzled. On the one hand, he felt convinced that
this man had abstracted his ticket and money. On the other, he doubted
whether it would be safe to charge him with it.
While he was hesitating, the cars began to go more slowly.
The conductor entered the car.
"Have you found your ticket?" he asked.
"No."
"Then leave the train at this next stopping-place."
Jasper had no chance to remonstrate. Obeying necessity, he stepped upon
the platform, and the train swept on.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE DESERTED HOUSE.
To be without money is far from pleasant under any circumstances, but to
be penniless a thousand miles from home, in the midst of strangers, is
far worse. Jasper found himself in this position so unexpectedly that as
he stood beside the little depot with his carpet-bag in his hand he felt
utterly bewildered.
He looked around him.
Not a house was in sight. Why the railroad company should have
established a depot there he could not understand. Probably there must
be some village not far away.
No other passenger had got out with Jasper. There was no other person in
sight but the station-master, a tall, sallow-faced man, in a slouched
hat, who eyed our hero curiously.
Jasper approached him.
"What place is this?" he asked.
"Don't you know?" questioned the man.
"No."
"What made you stop here, then?"
Jasper hesitated. There seemed no use in taking this man into his
confidence.
"I am going to take a look at the village. I suppose there is a
village?"
"Well," drawled the man, "there's some houses back."
"What's the name of the place?"
"Croyden."
"How far back is the village?"
"A matter of two miles."
"Is it easy to find the way?"
"There's the road."
The station-master pointed out a road leading through woods.
"Thank you," said Jasper.
"You don't happen to have any 'baccy with you?" asked the
station-master.
"No, I am sorry to say."
"I thought maybe you might. I'm most out."
Jasper took the road indicated by his informant and pressed on.
When he had walked half a mile along the lonely road he stopped suddenly
and asked himself:
"What are my plans? What use is there in going to Croyden?"
It was a hard question to answer.
Still, he must go somewhere. He could not go to St. Louis without money,
and there was a bare possibility that he might find something to do in
Croyden. If he could earn a few dollars he could go on, and once in a
large city there would be hope of permanent employment.
How different would have been his situation if he had not lost his
money, and how unfortunate it was that he should have been set down at
this dismal place!
He kept on, meeting no one.
Finally he came to a place where the road divided into two forks or
branches, one leading to the right, the other to the left.
"Which shall I take?" he asked himself.
There seemed no choice so far as he could see. Neither was very
promising, nor was there any sign-post to inform him of what he wished
to know.
"I wish somebody would come along," thought Jasper.
But nobody did.
Forced to decide, he decided in favor of the left-hand road, and walked
on.
After a while he began to suspect that he had made a wrong decision. The
road became little more than a lane, and seemed unfrequented. But just
as he was going to turn back he espied at some distance from the road a
rude dwelling, which, from its weather-beaten appearance, seemed never
to have been painted.
"I can find out something there, at any rate," thought Jasper, and he
bent his steps toward it.
Brief time brought him in front of the house. It was certainly a
quiet-looking place.
"It must be dismal to live here," thought Jasper.
He knocked with his fist at the door. On account of the smallness of the
house the knock certainly must have been heard, but there was no
response.
"The people must be deaf," thought Jasper.
He knocked again, this time considerably louder, and waited for some one
to answer his summons.
He waited in vain.
"It must be a deserted house," thought our hero. "I have a great mind to
explore it--that is, if I can get in."
He tried the door, and, a little to his surprise, it yielded to his
touch. The door being in the centre of the house, there was a room on
each side. The door to the left; opened into a room which was quite bare
of furniture. On the other side, however, was a room containing a table
and three chairs. On the table was a dirty clay-pipe and a box of
tobacco, and there was a dead odor of tobacco-smoke lingering in the
closely-shut room.
"That looks as if there were somebody living here," thought Jasper.
"Halloo!" he shouted, raising his voice.
He felt that it would be better to make his presence known, as otherwise
he might be suspected of entering the house with burglarious designs,
though it would have puzzled a burglar to find anything worth
purloining.
"There can't be anybody in the house or I should have been heard,"
thought our hero. "However, I'll call again."
This time there was a faint sound that came to his ears. It seemed like
the voice of a child.
"Where did that come from?" Jasper considered.
And he waited to hear if it would be repeated.
It was repeated, and now he could make out that it came from above.
"I'll go up," he decided.
He climbed the rude staircase, and pushed open the door of the room
above the one in which he had been standing a moment before. He gazed in
wonder at the spectacle before him.
A boy, five years of age, who in spite of his frightened expression
possessed great personal beauty, was lying on a bed in one corner of the
room. He looked at Jasper in uncertainty at first, then with confidence,
and said:
"Did you come for me?"
"Do you live here?" asked Jasper, in surprise, for this boy was not at
all like the children usually to be found in such houses as this.
His complexion was of dazzling whiteness, his hair was a bright
chestnut, and his clothing was such as wealthy parents can afford to
give to their children.
"Do you live here?" repeated Jasper.
"No," said the child.
"How came you here, then?"
"Big man--big, ugly man brought me."
"When?"
"I don't know," said the child.
He was evidently too young to measure the lapse of time.
"Was it yesterday?"
"No; long ago."
"I suppose it seems long to him," thought Jasper.
"Is there nobody else in the house?" asked Jasper.
"There's a woman," said the little boy.
"Is she the wife of the man who took you away?"
But this question the little boy did not seem to comprehend.
"Have you got a mother?" asked Jasper.
"Take me to mamma," said the little fellow, stretching out his arms, and
beginning to cry. "I want to see my mamma."
Jasper advanced to the bed.
He began to understand that the boy had been kidnapped, and he felt
great compassion for him.
He tried to raise the boy from the bed and take him in his arms, when he
made an unexpected discovery.
The boy's ankles were firmly tied by a rope, which connected with the
bedpost, so that it was impossible for him to leave the bed.
"Who did this?" asked Jasper, indignantly. "Who tied you?"
"It was the man--the big, ugly man," answered the child.
"I will soon unfasten you," said Jasper, and he set to work untying the
knot.
"Will you take me home?" asked the little boy.
"Yes," said Jasper, soothingly, "I'll take you home."
But just as he had completed his task he heard steps upon the stairs.
What if it were the man of whom the child spoke!
Jasper threw one arm around the child, and with his teeth set hard fixed
his eyes expectantly upon the door.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE KIDNAPPED CHILD.
The woman who entered was of middle size, dressed in a cheap print,
dirty and faded, which corresponded very well with her general aspect.
She looked weary and worn, and moved languidly as if she had little
interest in life. She looked startled at the sight of Jasper, and
pressed her hand to her heart.
"Who are you?" she asked.
"A stranger," answered our hero.
"How came you here?"
"I suppose I ought to apologize for being here, but I knocked twice and
got no answer. That made me think the house was deserted. I entered, and
hearing a low cry, came to this room."
The woman sank into a chair near the door.
"Is this your child?" asked Jasper, in his turn.
The woman answered hesitatingly, after a pause:
"No."
"I knew he could not be. How did he come here?'
"My husband brought him here," answered the woman, with some hesitation.
"Is he any relation to you?"
"N-no."
"Is he boarding here?"
"Yes."
The woman's hesitation increased Jasper's suspicion. He said:
"I found the boy tied to the bedpost. Did you tie him?"
"Yes."
"Why did you do that?"
"I thought he might slip off while I was out I went out for some water.
That is the reason I did not answer your knock."
"Madam," said Jasper, coming to the point, "you may answer me or not;
but if you do, tell the truth. Was not this child stolen?"
The woman looked nervous and frightened, and moved restlessly in her
chair.
"Don't blame me," she said. "It wasn't my fault."
"Whose was it, then?"
"It was my husband's."
"Then the child was stolen?"
"Yes."
"I suppose your husband kidnapped the child in order to get money from
the parents for his return?"
"Yes," the woman admitted.
"How can you assist him in such wicked practices?"
"What can I do?" said the woman, helplessly. "I have spoken to him, but
it does no good. He won't heed anything that I say."
Jasper began to pity the poor woman. It looked as if she were an
unwilling helper in her husband's crimes.
"Do you know where your husband got this boy from?" he asked.
"No; he didn't tell me."
"Is this the first child he has kidnapped?"
"I ought not to speak against my husband," said the woman, uneasily,
appearing to think that she had already told too much.
"Yes, you ought. Otherwise you will be as bad as he."
"He will beat me."
"Does he ever do that?" asked Jasper, compassionately.
"He is very rough sometimes," said the wife, shrinking.
"I am sorry for you," said Jasper, gently. "Where is your husband now?"
"He went out this morning. Perhaps he is hunting. He never tells me
where he is going."
"When do you expect him back?"
"I can't tell. He may be here in five minutes; he may not be here before
night."
"In that case," thought Jasper, "I had better be off as soon as
possible. I should be no match for this brute in human form. Judging
from what I have heard of him, he would kill me without scruple if he
thought I were interfering with his plans."
"How long has this child been here?" he asked.
"Three or four days."
"I am going to take him away," proceeded Jasper, fixing his eyes
earnestly upon the woman, to see how she took the proposal.
"No, no!" she exclaimed, quickly. "My husband won't allow it."
"He won't know it."
"It won't do," she continued, rapidly. "He would kill you if he overtook
you."
This was a serious consideration, truly. Jasper had no weapons, and a
boy of his age would have been a poor match for a strong man, as the
kidnapper probably was.
"After all, I had better not interfere," he thought. "It can do no good,
and will only expose me to great danger."
But just at this instant the little boy's soft hand slid into his, and
he could not resist the touching appeal for his protection.
"I shall take the risk," he said. "I can't leave the boy here. I will
try to find his parents and restore him to them."
He had scarcely said this when the woman, who had casually glanced out
of the window, started up in alarm, exclaiming:
"There is my husband coming! Oh, what shall we do?"
CHAPTER XIX.
A BRUTE IN HUMAN SHAPE.
Jasper could not help feeling that he was in rather a critical position.
A man whose business it was to kidnap young children in order to extort
money from their friends was not likely to be very scrupulous, and the
fear of having his secret divulged might lead him to extreme measures.
"Is your husband likely to come up here?" he asked.
"I don't know; he may," answered the woman, anxiously.
"Can't you hide me?" suggested Jasper.
"Yes, yes," she said, recovering something of her presence of mind.
"There, get into that closet. I'll come and let you out when he is
gone."
She opened the door of a closet in one corner of the room. It was quite
dark inside, and except a stool, it was entirely empty.
"Sit down there," said the woman. "I must go down now."
She buttoned the door, and our hero found himself a close prisoner in
the dark. It certainly gave him a peculiar sensation. Only a week before
he had been at his Eastern home. Now he was more than a thousand miles
away, penniless, and a prisoner. But though he was peculiarly situated,
he was not discouraged. In fact, with a brave boy's love of adventure,
he felt a certain exhilaration and wondered what was coming next. His
courage and enterprise rose with the occasion, and he began to consider
what course he should take after he got out.
While he is sitting in the closet in dark captivity, we will go below
and make acquaintance with the man whose arrival had produced so great a
sensation.
Before going down, the woman said to the child:
"Don't tell anybody about the boy in the closet."
"No, I won't," said the child, obediently.
The woman hurried down stairs, but her husband was already waiting for
her.
He was a black-browed ruffian, with a rough beard of a week's growth. He
threw himself sullenly into a chair and growled:
"Where were you? You're always out of the way when I come home."
"I just went up stairs a minute, Dick," she answered.
"To see the brat, I suppose."
"Yes."
"I've a great mind to knock him on the head."
"Oh, Dick, you wouldn't injure the little innocent," she said,
earnestly.
"Wouldn't I? I would if I was paid enough, but there's nothing to be
made by killing him."
"Thank heaven!" uttered the woman, fervently.
"You haven't got the heart of a chicken!" said the man, contemptuously.
"Give me something to eat. I'm hungry."
The woman began to bustle around in obedience to his command.
"I haven't got much in the house, Dick," she said, apologetically.
"What have you got?" he growled.
"Some eggs and a little bacon. Shall I make you some tea?"
"No; bring out the whisky."
"There's none left, Dick."
The man uttered an oath expressive of disappointment.
"Well, give me some slops, then," he said. "I must have something to
drink."
"Didn't you shoot anything?" she ventured to ask.
"I haven't been hunting."
"I thought you took out your gun."
"What if I did? I don't always hunt when I take my gun. I expected to
hear from the friends of that brat this morning, but I didn't. They must
hurry up with their money if they don't want me to strangle him."
"Perhaps they didn't get your letter, Dick."
"Yes, they did. I took care of that. I s'pose they're hatching up some
plot to have me arrested. If they do, it'll be a bad day for the brat."
He looked fierce and brutal enough to execute the dark threat at which
he indirectly hinted. There was a cruel look in his eye which showed
that he would have had small scruples about injuring an innocent child,
if provoked by the desire for revenge.
While his wife was cooking the eggs he filled his pipe and began to
smoke. She made all the haste she could, knowing that her husband was
far from patient. Soon the frugal repast was ready. She set it on the
table, and said:
"It's all ready, Dick. Better eat it while it's hot."
"I'll eat it when I choose," he growled, in his usual spirit of
contradiction.
However, he was hungry, and laying aside his pipe, did as she requested.
Soon he had dispatched all the food set before him.
"There isn't enough to keep a kitten from starving," he said.
"I'm sorry, Dick."
"Much you are sorry," he growled. "A pretty wife you are."
"I wish there were more. If you'll give me some money I'll go out and
buy something."
"Money!" he snarled. "You're always wanting money. Do you think I am
made of money?"
"No, Dick; but you know I have none. I wish I knew of any way to earn
it."
"You do?"
"Yes, Dick."
"Then I suppose you'd be leaving me," he said, suspiciously.
"No, I wouldn't. You know I wouldn't, Dick."
"So you say," he answered, brutally, "How's the brat? Has it been
crying?"
"No; it is a very good child."
"I'll go up and take a look at it."
He arose from his seat, and advanced toward the door.
His wife followed him.
"Where are you going?" he asked, turning upon her.
"I'm going up, too," she answered, meekly.
"What for? Can't you trust me with the brat?"
"Yes, Dick, but it isn't much used to you. You might frighten it, and
make it cry."
"That's all right," he answered, smiling grimly. "I like to hear
children cry."
"How can you enjoy the sufferings of a child?"
"Halloo! What's that?" he said, looking sharply at her. "You dare to
find fault with me, do you?"
"I didn't mean that, Dick," she said, submissively.
"It's lucky you didn't," he said, warningly. "I don't allow none of
that, wife or no wife."
"May I go up?"
"If you want to."
So the two went up stairs together.
The wife was nervous lest the child in some way might excite the
suspicions of her husband and betray the presence of Jasper. She felt,
therefore, very ill at ease.
The child was sitting up in bed.
"Halloo, young 'un, how yer gettin' along?" asked the man, roughly.
The child did not answer, but looked frightened.
"Why don't you answer?" demanded the man, frowning.
The child looked toward the woman, and seemed on the point of crying.
"Can't you say something to the gentleman?" said the woman, soothingly.
Thus adjured, the little boy said:
"Won't you take me to my mamma?"
"Oh, yes, I'll take you as soon as your mamma sends me some money," said
the man named Dick, "and she'd better do it pretty soon, too," he
muttered.
He threw himself into a chair, and ceased to notice the child.
"Do you know, old woman," he said in a different tone, "I've heard news
that'll rather take you by suprise?"
"I hope it is good news," said his wife, anxiously.
"Well, that's as may be," he answered. "It ought to be good news for us,
but there's no saying. You know my sister?"
"Mrs. Thorne?"
"Yes. Well, she's had a stroke of luck."
"How was that?"
"Well, you see she went as governess into a family. The man was rich and
an invalid--a widower, too. What does she do but get him to marry her?"
"She has been fortunate."
"That isn't all of it. She hadn't been married but two or three months
when her husband died, leaving her a third of his property and guardian
to his son, who inherits the rest. So she's a rich woman. I say she
ought to do something for her brother Dick. Don't you say so?"
"I think she would be willing," said the wife.
"She ought to be, but she's selfish. She always was. If only I had the
money I'd go East, and see what I could get out of her."
"You'd take me with you, Dick?"
"No, I wouldn't. It'll be all I can do to raise money enough to pay my
own expenses, let alone yours. If I get anything I'll come back, and
you'll get your share. That's why I want the parents of that brat to
fork over the cash pretty quick."
"How did you learn the news about your sister, Dick?"
"An old pal of mine has just come from that way and told me all about
it."
Every word of this dialogue was beard by Jasper in his place of
concealment. He was astonished beyond measure to learn that this ruffian
was the brother of his step-mother.
"No wonder I don't like her," he thought, "if they have any traits in
common. What a fate, for my kind and gentle father to marry the sister
of such a man!"
"I'm glad of it," said his wife.
"Well, so am I, if she'll do the right thing by me; but if she don't,
then I'm sorry."
"What shall I do when you're away, Dick?"
"Get along as well as you can. Folks'll give you victuals, if you get
hard up."
"I don't like to beg."
"Wish me good luck, then, and money enough to take care of you. What are
you starin' at, young 'un?"
This he said to the child, whose eyes, as if by a species of
fascination, were fixed upon him.
"Take me home to mamma!" pleaded the child, beginning to cry.
"Shut up!" said the ruffian, harshly, striding to the bed and pinching
the boy's arm till he cried with the pain.
"Oh, don't, Dick," pleaded the woman, who was fond of children, though
she had never been a mother.
"I'll give the brat something to cry for," said her husband, and he
pinched him again.
"Oh, Dick, how can you torture the poor child?" said his wife, braver in
the little boy's defence than in her own.
"What business has it to cry, then? I'd like to choke it. If you don't
hush I'll serve you the same way."
Jasper had listened to this brutality as long as he could, but his
indignation became too hot to be repressed. Thoughtless of consequences,
he burst open the closet door and strode into the presence of the
astonished ruffian, his fists involuntarily clenched, and his eyes
kindling with indignation.
CHAPTER XX.
A STRANGE COMMISSION.
The man whom we have called Dick stopped short and gazed in astonishment
at the boy who had so fearlessly stepped upon the scene.
"Where did you come from?" he demanded, frowning.
"From that closet," answered Jasper.
"How came you there? What business have you in my house, anyway?"
demanded the ruffian.
"I entered it supposing it to be deserted," said Jasper. "While I was
below I heard that poor boy cry, and came up."
"Did you know he was here?" asked the ruffian, turning to his wife, and
speaking menacingly.
"Yes, Dick."
"Why did you let him in?"
"He came in while I was out."
"Why didn't you tell me he was here?"
"Because I didn't want him injured in any way. I was afraid you would be
angry with him."
"That is where you are right," said Dick, adding an oath. "The young
scoundrel shall pay for his impudence in entering my house like a
thief."
"You have no right to say that," said Jasper. "I have explained to you
why I came here."
"You hid in the closet, intending to come out and steal when we were out
of the way."
"What could I steal?" asked Jasper, looking around him.
"Do you mean to taunt me with my poverty?" exclaimed the ruffian,
enraged.
"No; I am poorer than you."
"You look like it."
"It is true. I was robbed in the cars by a pickpocket, and because I was
penniless and could not pay my fare I was put off at this station."
"Is this true?" demanded Dick, with a searching look.
"Yes; I wish it were not."
"How came you near this house?"
"I set out to walk to the village, and must have lost my way."
"Why did you come out of that closet?" was the next demand.
"Because I heard you abusing that little boy," said Jasper, fearlessly.
"I have a right to do what I please to my own child."
"It isn't your child."
"What do you mean by that, you impudent young jackanapes?"
Unobserved by her husband, the wife made a warning sign to Jasper not to
provoke the man, whose evil passion she so well knew.
Jasper comprehended the sign, but it did not influence him. Frank and
fearless by temperament, he thought it his duty to stand between the
little boy and this ruffian's brutality. Still he appreciated the
woman's kindness, and resolved to bear it in mind. Indeed, he saw that
she was rather to be pitied than blamed. Her natural instincts were
good, but she was under the control of a bad man.
"I heard what you were saying," said Jasper.
"You heard?"
"Yes, while I was in the closet."
"What did you hear, you young scoundrel?" demanded the ruffian.
"Enough to satisfy me that you have stolen this boy from his parents."
"It's a lie!"
"No; it is the truth. I felt sure of it before, and now I know it. You
took him in order to extort money from his friends."
"Well," said the ruffian, defiantly, "what if I did? Have you anything
to say against it?"
"Yes," said Jasper.
"I shall have to wring your neck by and by," muttered Dick. "Well, go
on. Spit out what you've got to say."
"I say it's a cruel wrong to the parents," said Jasper, boldly, "and to
the child also. But you make it worse when you try to abuse the boy."
"Come, boy, if you care so much for the brat, suppose you take his
place, and take the beating I was going to give him," suggested the
ruffian, mockingly.
"I would rather suffer than have him suffer," said Jasper, quietly; "but
perhaps you will change your mind when you hear what I have to say."
"Oh, you are going to beg off!" sneered the ruffian, with a look of
satisfaction. "I thought you'd come to your senses."
"You are mistaken as to my intention. I want to speak to you about your
sister--formerly Mrs. Thorne."
"What do you know about her?" asked the man, in extreme astonishment.
"A good deal. She is my step-mother."
"What! Are you the son of the man she married?" asked Dick, eagerly.
"I am Jasper Kent."
"That's the name. So she sent you out to me, did she? That's better than
I thought She hasn't forgotten her brother, after all."
"No; you are mistaken," said Jasper. "She never so much as told me she
had a brother."
Dick looked disappointed. Then, with sudden suspicion, he said, roughly:
"I believe you are lying. This Jasper Kent is rich--the heir of
two-thirds of his father's property. You say you are penniless."
"That is true. Both stories are true. I am my father's principal heir,
but your sister is my guardian. She has treated me in such a way that I
left the house."
"Ran away, eh?"
"No, I gave her full notice of what I should do. I told her that if I
were decently treated I would stay, but if she continued to insult me,
and give the preference in all things to her own boy, Nicholas, I would
go away."
"You haven't been such a fool as to go off and leave all your property
in her hands?"
"I shall come in possession of it when I am twenty-one. Till then I will
try to support myself."
"Come, boy, you're plucky. I'm glad you came, after all. I want to hear
more about my sister's affairs. Come down stairs, and we'll talk."
Dick appeared suddenly to have forgotten his animosity. He became even
friendly in his manner, as he gave our hero this invitation.
"Old woman," said he, addressing his wife, "can't you rake up something
for this boy to eat? I dare say he is hungry."
"I don't think we've got anything more in the house."
"I'll go out directly and get something. Come down, boy, I want to ask
you a few more questions."
They went down stairs, followed by the wife. She was happily relieved by
the unexpected good understanding between her husband and Jasper.
"Now tell me," said Dick, eagerly, when they were in the lower room,
"how much property has my sister got?"
"Probably between thirty and forty thousand dollars."
"As much as that?" said Dick, complacently. "Well, she has feathered her
nest well."
"I don't like Mrs. Kent," said Jasper. "Though she is your sister, I am
obliged to say that, but it is not at all on account of the property my
father left her. If he had given her one-half his estate I would not
have complained, as long as she treated me fairly."
"Helen was always a hard customer. She's got a will of her own,"
chuckled Dick.
"There was no hope of our getting on together," said Jasper.
"She ought to do something for me--don't you think so? I'm her only
brother."
"As to that," said Jasper, "my opinion wouldn't have any weight with
her. If you are poor and need help, it would be only natural for her to
help you."
"That's the way to talk! You won't say anything against me to her?"
"Certainly not," said Jasper. "I shall not write to her at all; and even
if I did, I wouldn't try to interfere with her disposing of her property
in any way she thinks best."
"Come, you're a trump, after all. I like you. You're plucky, too."
"Thank you."
"I'll say a good word for you to my sister when I see her."
"You'd better not," said Jasper. "If she thinks you are friendly to me
you'll stand a poor chance of any favors. Better abuse me."
Dick roared with laughter.
"I say, youngster, you're a smart 'un. I see you're friendly by your
hint. I'll abuse you to her, never fear. You must take a drink on that.
Say, old woman, where's the whisky?"
"There's not a drop in the house, Dick."
"I forgot. Curse the luck!"
Just then a man entered the house only less brutal-looking than Dick
himself.
He held a letter in his hand.
Dick seized it eagerly.
"It's from the father of the boy," he said.
The letter proved to contain fifty dollars.
    "I send this in advance," said the writer. "When the boy is safely
    delivered into my hands a hundred and fifty more will be paid to
    the one who brings him, and no questions asked.  Herman Fitch."
"Good!" said Dick, "as far as it goes. I'm ready to give up the brat,
but will his father keep faith? Perhaps he'll have the police on hand
ready to nab me."
"Haven't you anybody to send--anybody you can trust?"
Dick slapped his knee forcibly. An idea had come to him.
"I'll send him in charge of the brat," he said, pointing to Jasper.
CHAPTER XXI.
JASPER IS INTRUSTED WITH A DELICATE COMMISSION.
"Look here, boy," said Dick, "do you want a job?"
"Yes," said Jasper, "if it's honest."
"No fear of that. I want you to take that boy home to his father."
"I'll do it," said Jasper, eagerly.
"How much pay do you want?"
"None at all, except money to pay my fare in the cars."
"You're the right sort," said Dick, with satisfaction. "But there's
another matter I've got to think about. How do I know but you will
betray me?"
"How?"
"Put the police on my track."
"If you hadn't given up the boy I might," said Jasper, frankly.
Dick regarded him attentively.
"You're bold," he said. "Then you won't betray me now."
"No."
"Promise it."
"I promise--that is, if you send the boy home by me."
"All right; that's understood. Now for another matter. Read that
letter."
Jasper read the letter of Herman Fitch, already quoted.
"You see this man, the boy's father, agrees to pay one hundred and fifty
dollars when he is given up."
"I see that."
"He will give you that money--that is, if he means fair--and you will
bring it to me. Do you understand?"
"I do."
