men had dared to draw ; but he had wounded no one, 
for he knew that it was a madness which must pass 
and must be forgiven. 
Then he found himself with his horse on the very 
edge of the open track made by the dividing people, 
and he looked and saw the Queen, and Beatrix three 
or four lengths behind her, as the matchless Arab 
gained ground in the race. He had been above the 
deep fall and understood. Instantly he was on his 
feet on the turf, a step out in the perilous way; and 
he wished that he had the strength of Lancelot in his 
hands, with the leap of a wild beast in his feet, but 
his heart did not fail him. 
In one second he lived an hour. His life was 
nothing, but he could only give it once, to save 
one woman, and she must be Beatrix, let such chance 
befall Eleanor as might. Yet Eleanor was the 
Queen, and she had been kind to him, and in the 
fateful instant of doom his eyes were on her face ; 
he would try to save the other, but unconsciously he 
made one step forward again and stood waiting in 
midway. One second for a lifetime's thought, one 
for the step he made, and the next was the last. He 
could hear the rush of the wind, and Eleanor was 
looking at him. 
In that supreme moment her face changed, and the 
desperate calm in her eyes became desperate fear for 
him she loved even better than she knew. 
"Back!" she cried, and the cry was a woman's 
agonized scream, not for herself. 
With all her might, but utterly in vain, she 
wrenched sideways at the mare's mouth and she 
closed her eyes lest she should see the man die. He 
had meant to let her pass to her death, for the girl 
was dearer to him, and he had gathered his strength 
like a bent spring to serve him. But he saw her eyes 
and heard her cry, and in the flash of instinct he knew 
she loved him, and that she wished him to save him- 
self rather than her ; and thereby is real love proved 
on the touchstone of fear. 
" HE . . . HELD, WHILE EARTH AND SKY WHIRLKD WITH HIM " 
 
As he sprang, he knew that he had no choice, 
though he did not love her. The fall of her mare, 
if his grip held, might stop the rest. He sprang; 
he- saw only the Arab's bony head and the gold 
on the bridle, as both his hands grasped it. Then 
he saw nothing, but yet 'he held, and, dead, he would 
have held still, as the steel jaws of the hunter's 
trap hold upon the wolf's leg-bone. He knew that 
he was thrown down, dragged, pounded, bruised, 
twisted like a rope till his joints cracked. But he 
held, and felt no pain, while earth and sky whirled 
with him. It was not a second; it was an hour, a 
year, a lifetime; yet he could not have loosed his 
hands, had he wished to let go, for there were in him 
the blood and the soul of the race that never yielded 
its grip on whatsoever it held. 
It lasted a breathing-space, while the mare plunged 
wildly and staggered, and her head almost touched 
the ground and dragged the man's hands on the turf; 
then as his weight wrenched her neck back, her 
violent speed threw her hind quarters round, as a 
vane is blown from the gale. At the same instant 
the great Hungarian horse was upon her, tried to leap 
her in his stride, struck her empty saddle with his 
brown chest, and fell against her and upon her with 
all his enormous weight, and the two rolled over 
each other, frantically kicking. The standard bearer's 
horse, less mad than the others and some lengths 
behind, checked himself cleverly, and after two or 
three short, violent strides, that almost unseated his 
rider, planted his fore feet in the turf and stood stock- 
still, heaving and trembling. The race was over. 
With the strength and instinct of the born rider, 
Eleanor had slipped her feet from the stirrups and 
had let herself be thrown, lifting herself with her 
hands on the high pommel and vaulting clear away. 
She fell, but was on her feet before any man of the 
dazed throng could help her. She saw Gilbert lying 
his full length on his side, his body passive, but his 
arras stretched beyond his head, while his gloved 
hands still clenched upon the bridle and were pulled 
from side to side by the mare's faintly struggling 
head. His eyes were half open toward the Queen, 
but they were pale and saw nothing. The Hunga- 
rian had rolled half upon his back, little hurt, and 
the pommels of the saddle under him kept him from 
turning completely over. 
Beatrix lay like one dead. She had been thrown 
over the Arab's back, striking her head on the turf, 
and the mare in her final struggle had rolled upon 
her feet. The light steel cap had been forced down 
over her forehead in spite of its cushioned lining, and 
the chiselled rim had cut into the flesh so that a little 
line of dark blood was slowly running across the 
white skin ; and her white gloved hands were lying 
palm upward, half open and motionless. The Queen 
scarcely glanced at her. 
Many men sprang forward when the danger was 
past, and they dragged Beatrix out and began to get 
her horse upon his feet. Eleanor knelt by Gilbert 
and tried to take his fingers from the bridle, but 
could not, so that she had to loose the buckle from 
the long bars of the bit. Her hands chafed his 
temples softly, and she bent lower and blew upon 
 
his face, that her cool breath might wake him. There 
were drops of blood on his forehead and on his chin, 
his cloth tunic was torn in many places, and the 
white linen showed at the rents ; but Eleanor saw 
only the look in his face, serene and strong even in 
his unconsciousness, while in the dream of his swoon 
he saved her life again. 
In that moment, knowing that he could not see 
her, she thought not of her own face as she gazed 
upon his, nor of hiding what she felt ; and the thing 
she felt was evil, and it was sweet. But suddenly 
there was life in his look, with a gentle smile, and 
the strained fingers were loosed with a sigh, and a 
long-unused word came from his lips. 
"Mother!" 
Eleanor shook her beautiful head slowly. Then 
Gilbert's face darkened with understanding and the 
old pain clutched at his heart sharply, even before 
the keen bodily hurt awoke in his wrung limbs. All 
at once thought came, and he knew how, in a quick 
fall of his heart, he had forgotten Beatrix and had 
almost given his life to save the Queen. As if he 
had been stung, he started and raised himself on 
one hand, though it was as if he forced his body 
among hot knives. 
"She is dead! " he cried, with twisting lips. 
" No — you saved us both. " 
The words came soft and clear, as Eleanor laid her 
hand upon his shoulder to quiet him, and watched 
the change as the agony in his eyes faded to relief 
and brightened to peace. 
"Thank God!" 
He sank upon her arm, for he was much bruised. 
But her face changed, too, and she suffered new 
things, because in her there was good as well as evil; 
for as she loved him more than before he had saved 
her, so she would give him more, if she might, even 
to forgetting herself. 
And so, for a few moments, she knelt and watched 
him, heedless of the people about her, and scarcely 
seeing a dark man whom she had never noticed before, 
and who bent so low that she could not see his face, 
quietly loosening his master's collar and then feel- 
ing along his arms and legs for any bone hurt there 
might be. 
" Who are you ? " asked the Queen, at last, gently, 
as to one who was helping him she loved. 
"His man," answered Dunstan, laconically, with- 
out looking up. 
"Take care of him and bring me word of him," 
she answered, and from a wallet she gave him gold, 
which he took, silently bending his head still lower 
in thanks. 
He, too, had saved her that day, and knew it, 
though she did not. 
She stood up at last, gathering her mantle round 
her. Less than ten minutes had passed since she 
had thrown up her hand and called to her ladies to 
follow her. Since then the world had been in her- 
self and on fire, leaving no room for other thoughts ; 
but now the crowd had parted wide, and the King 
was coming towards her, slow and late, to know 
whether she were hurt, for he had seen her ride. 
" Madam, " he said, when he had dismounted, " I 
 
thank the mercy of Heaven, which deigned to hear 
the prayers I was continually offering up for your 
safety while your life was threatened by that dan- 
gerous animal. We will render thanks in divine 
services during ten days before proceeding farther, 
or during a fortnight if you prefer it." 
"Your Grace," said Eleanor, coldly, "is at liberty 
to praise Heaven by the month if it seems good to 
you. But for that poor Englishman, who lies there 
in a swoon, and who caught my horse's bridle at the 
risk of his life, you might have been ordering masses 
for my soul instead of for my bodily preservation. 
They would have been much needed had I been killed 
just then." 
The King crossed himself devoutly, half closed 
his eyes, bent himself a little, and whispered a short 
prayer. 
"It would be better," observed the Queen, "to 
move on at once and support the Emperor. " 
" It has pleased God that the army of the Emperor 
should be totally destroyed," answered the King, 
calmly. "The Emperor himself will be here in a 
few hours, unless he has perished with the rest of his 
knights, slain by the Seljuk horsemen who are pur- 
suing the fugitives." 
" The more reason why we should save those who are 
still alive. My army shall march to-morrow at day- 
break — your Grace may stay behind and pray for us. " 
She turned from him scornfully. Dunstan and some 
foot-soldiers had made stretchers with lances and pikes 
and were just beginning to carry Beatrix and Gilbert 
away, northward, in the direction of the camp. 
CHAPTER XV 
When Gilbert learned from his man that Beatrix 
was badly hurt and suffering great pain, he turned 
his face away and bit hard on the saddle-bag that 
served him for a pillow. It was late in the afternoon, 
and Dunstan had just come back from making in- 
quiries in the ladies' lines, half a mile away. 
Nothing could have been simpler than his round 
tent, which had a single pole and covered a circle 
four or five paces in diameter. The dry ground had 
been sprinkled with water and beaten with mallets 
so as to harden it as much as possible. Gilbert and 
his two men slept on smoke-cuied hides over which 
heavy woollen blankets were spread, almost as thick 
as carpets, hand-woven in rough designs of vivid 
blue and red, the coarse work of shepherds of Au- 
vergne, but highly valued. 
Against the pole the saddles were piled one upon 
another, Gilbert's own on top, with its curved pom- 
mels; Dunstan's, covered with plaited lines for 
binding on rolled blankets and all sorts of light 
packages and saddle-bags before and behind the 
rider's seat; and the mule's pack-saddle, on which 
little Alric rode, perched upon the close-bound bun- 
dles, when the road was fair. During most of the 
journey the sturdy Saxon had trudged along on foot, 
as Dunstan did also, but it was not seemly that a 
 
man of gentle blood should be seen walking on the 
march, except of great necessity. 
Above the saddles Gilbert's mail hung by the 
neck, with a stout staff run through both arms to 
stretch it out, lest dampness should rust it; also his 
other armour and his sword were fastened up like an 
ancient trophy, with bridles and leathern bottles and 
other gear. Beside the saddles, on the ground, 
the shining copper kettle held three bright brass 
bowls, well-scoured wooden trenchers, a long wooden 
ladle, an iron skewer, and three brass spoons, the 
simple necessities for cooking and eating. Forks 
had not been thought of in those days. 
Gilbert lay on his back and turned his face away 
from his man. He was bruised and scratched, and 
his head ached from being struck on the ground when 
the mare had dragged him; but he was whole and 
sound in limb, and Dunstan had stretched his joints 
and pressed his bruises with a wise touch that had 
in it something of Oriental skill. He lay wrapped 
in a long robe of coarse white linen, as thick as wool 
— a sensible Greek garment which he had got in 
Constantinople. The afternoon was warm, and 
though the flap of the tent was raised and stretched 
out like an awning, there was little air, and the 
place smelt of the leathern trappings and of hot 
canvas; and through the side to which he turned 
his face Gilbert could see little dazzling sparks of 
rays where the sun was beating full upon the out- 
side. 
He wished that in the mad rush of the Arab the 
life might have been pounded out of him, and that 
he might never have waked to know what he had 
done; for although in his sober senses he did not 
love the Queen, it seemed to him that he had loved 
her in the moment when he sprang to save her 
life, and that he could never again forget the look 
of fear for him in her eyes and her cry of terror for 
his sake. All that Beatrix had said to him in the 
garden at Constantinople came back to him now; 
until now, he had disbelieved it all, as a wild and 
foolish impossibility, for he was over-modest and 
diffident of himself in such matters. 
Beatrix would certainly have been killed but for 
the chance which had thrown the mare across the 
narrow way, and he had risked his life to save 
another woman. It mattered not that the other was 
the Queen ; that was not the reason why he had leapt 
upon the bridle. He had done it for a glance of 
her eyes, for the tone of her voice, as it were in an 
instant of temptation, when he had stepped out of 
the rank to face destruction for a dearer sake. It 
seemed like a crime, and it proved against his own 
belief that he loved what he loved not. Had he let 
the Queea pass, and had he stopped Beatrix's horse 
instead, she might have been unhurt, and one other 
brave man might have saved Eleanor at the brink. 
Indeed, he thought of the sad face with its pathetic 
little smile, drawn with pain and hot upon the pillow, 
by his fault ; and he thought with greater fear of the 
danger that some deep hurt might leave the slender 
frame bent and crippled for life. 
But meanwhile the news had spread quickly that 
it was the silent Englishman, neither knight nor 
 
squire, who had saved the Queen, and outside the 
tent men stopped and talked of the deed, and asked 
questions of Alric, who had picked up enough 
Norman-French to give tolerably intelligible an- 
swers. At first came soldiers, passing as they went 
to fetch water from the lake, and .again as they came 
back with copper vessels filled to the brim and drip- 
ping upon their shoulders, they set down their bur- 
dens and talked together. Presently came a great 
knight, the Count of Montferrat, brother to the 
Count of Savoy, who had been at V^zelay, where 
Gilbert had talked with him. He walked with 
slow strides, his bright eyes seeming to cut a 
way for him, his long mantle trailing, his soft red 
leather boots pushed down in close creases about 
his ankles, his gloved hand pressing down the cross- 
hilt of his sword, so that the sheath lifted his man- 
tle behind him. On each side of him walked his 
favourite knights, and their squires with them, all 
on their way to the King's quarters, where a council 
of war was to be held, since it was known how the 
great German host had been routed, and that the 
Emperor himself might follow Duke Frederick of 
Suabia. This Duke had already reached the camp, 
after beating off the Seljuk skirmishers who had 
harassed his retreat and driven in the first fright- 
struck Germans. 
The soldiers and grooms made way for the noble, 
but he asked which might be the tent of Gilbert 
Warde, the Englishman; so they pointed to the 
raised flap, where Alric stood with his sturdy legs 
apart, under the shadow of Gilbert's long shield. 
which was hanging from a lance stuck in the ground. 
The shield was blank, though many gentlemen 
already painted devices on theirs, and sovereign 
lords displayed the heraldic emblems of their houses 
long before their vassals began to use their coats- 
of-arms on their shields in war. But Gilbert would 
bear neither emblem nor device till some great deed 
should make him famous. 
The Count of Montferrat glanced at the blank shield 
thoughtfully, and asked little Alric of what family 
his master was; and when he heard that his fore- 
fathers had been with Robert the Devil when he 
died, and with William at Hastings, and with God- 
frey at Jerusalem, and that his father had died 
fighting for Maud against the usurper, but that 
Gilbert had not knighthood for all that, he wondered 
gravely. Yet knowing that he was hurt and ill at 
ease, the Count would not go in, but gave Abie a 
piece of gold and bade him greet the young Lord 
of Stoke and tell him that the Count of Montferrat 
craved better acquaintance with him when he should 
be recovered. 
He went on his way, and was not gone far when 
the Count of Savoy and the lord of fated Coucy 
came strolling side by side, with their trains of 
knights and squires, on their way to the council. 
And having seen Montferrat stop at the tent, they did 
likewise, and asked the same questions, giving Alric 
money out of respect for his master's brave deed 
and good name, according to custom. Many others 
came after them, great and small, and the great gave 
the groom money, and the poor men-at-arms asked 
 
him to drink with them after supper; so that his flat 
leathern wallet, which was cracking in its creases 
from having been long empty, was puffed out and 
hard, and weighed heavily at his belt, and as for 
the wine promised him, he might have floated a boat 
in it. 
There was one of the Greek guides who stood near 
the tent, playing with a string of thick beads, and 
keeping behind Alric ; and when there was a crowd 
around him this Greek slipped nearer, with his razor 
in the palm of his hand, and stealthily tried to 
cut the thongs by which the wallet was fastened. 
So the Saxon turned quickly and smote him be- 
tween the eyes with his fist, and it was an hour 
before the Greek came to himself and crawled away, 
for nobody would lift him. But Alric laughed often 
as he sucked the trickling blood from his knuckles, 
and though he was a little man and young, the 
soldiers looked at him with respect, and many more 
of them asked him to drink. 
So on that afternoon Gilbert's reputation grew 
suddenly, as a bright lily that has been long in bud 
under a wet sky breaks out like a flame in the first 
sunshine; and the days were over when he must 
trudge along unnoticed in the vast throng of 
nobles, with his two men and his modest baggage. 
Meanwhile the council was held in the King's 
tent of state, within which three hundred nobles sat 
at ease after the King himself had taken his place 
on the throne, with the Queen on his right hand. 
There the red-bearded Frederick of Suabia, nephew to 
Conrad and famous afterward as the Emperor Bar- 
barossa, stood up and told his tale : how the wild Ger- 
man knights had truly forced their leaders to take the 
mountain road and fight the Seljuks at a disad- 
vantage ; how the Seljuks appeared and disappeared 
again from hour to hour, falling upon their prey 
at every turn, reddening every pass with blood, and 
leaving half-killed men among the slain to wonder 
whence the swift smiters had come and whither they 
were gone. He himself had wounds not healed, 
and he told how, day by day, the mad bravery of 
the Germans, and the fury of his Black Forest 
men-at-arms, had risen again and again to very 
desperation, to sink before evening in a new defeat; 
until, at last, as the Seljuk swords still killed and 
killed, a terror had fallen upon the host in the 
passes, and men had thrown away their armour and 
fled like rats from a burning granary, so that their 
leaders could not hold them. He, with a few strong 
helpers, had covered his flying troops, and the brave 
Emperor Conrad, giant in strength, the greatest 
swordsman of the world, was even now fighting at 
the hindmost rear of the army to save whom he 
could. 
It had been madness, he told them all, to try the 
mountain ways. To Palestine there were two roads, 
and they might choose between them, either following 
the long coast round Asia Minor to the Gulf of Cyprus, 
or else, going down to the Propontis, they might get 
ships from Constantinople and sail to the ports of 
Syria. The short way was death, and though death 
were nothing, it meant failure and destruction to 
the Christian power in Jerusalem and Antioch. 
 
Thus he spoke, and the King and Queen and all 
the great nobles heard him in silence. There were 
the great Counts of Flanders arid Toulouse, of 
Savoy, of Montferrat and Dreux and Blois, and the 
lords of Lusignan, of Coucy, of Courtenay, and of 
Bourbon, and the Bishops of Toul and Metz, and 
all the great knights of Gascony and Poitou, with 
many others of high name and good blood, who heard 
the red-bearded Duke speak. But when he had 
finished, none answered him, and the French King sat 
on his throne, repeating the prayers for the dead in 
a low voice. But Eleanor's eyes flashed fire and her 
gloved hand strained impatiently upon the carved 
arm of the chair of state. 
" Requiem etemam dona eis, " muttered the King. 
"Amen!" responded Eleanor, in a clear, con- 
temptuous voice. "And now that prayers are over, 
let us do deeds. Let us mount and ride forth at 
dawn to meet the Emperor, and help him in his need 
at the last. Let us ride in even order, sending out 
scouts and skirmishers before us, and keeping good 
watch, armed and ready at all moments. Then, 
when all are safe who are alive, we will return here, 
that the Germans may rest themselves by this good 
lake; and afterward we will set forth again by the 
safest road, cautiously, not wasting upon skirmishes 
the strength we shall need hereafter for a great 
victory." 
"The Emperor will surely be here to-morrow, 
without our help," said the King, in manifest dis- 
content. " It is of no use to go and meet him. " 
"If he is so near, let us mount to-night, this 
very hour, rather than have on us the shame of lying 
idly here while men who wear the cross are in need 
of us." 
The King said nothing, but at Eleanor's words a 
low murmur of assent ran through the assembly 
of brave men, from those at her feet to those 
farthest from her; and the impatient touch of each 
hand on sword or dagger, at the thought of fight, 
made a sound of softly moving steel and leather 
and buckle, which one may only hear among soldiers. 
Eleanor stood up, untired by her terrible ride, 
unshaken by her fall, her eyes full of the bright- 
ness of pride. It was her daily food and her 
perpetual necessity to have the better of the King 
in the eyes of men, whether the matter were great or 
small. She stood up to her height, as if to show all 
her beauty and strength to the world, and the low 
sun streamed through the wide entrance to the tent 
and fell full upon her face and her unblinking 
eyes. 
"My lords and barons, gentlemen of Guienne and 
France, our journey is over to-day, our battles begin 
to-morrow ! Our brothers are in danger, the enemy 
is in sight ! Men of the Cross, to arms ! " 
" To arms ! " rang the reply in many voices, both 
high and deep, like a major chord sounding from 
the heart. 
As she rose, the nobles had risen, too, and only 
the King kept his seat, his pale face bent, his hands 
folded upon the hilt of the sword that stood between 
his knees. The Queen said no more, and, without 
glancing at her husband, as if she alone were sover- 
eign, she descended the two steps from the throne 
to the floor of the tent. Three knights, one of Gas- 
cony, one of Poitou, and one of her own Guienne, 
who were her guard of honour, followed her as she 
passed out, smiling to the great nobles on her right 
and left. And many showed that they desired to 
speak with her — first among them the Count of 
Montferrat. 
"Madam," he said, when he had bowed low before 
her, "I praise God and the Holy Trinity that your 
Grace is alive to-day. I pray that you will deign 
to accept the homage and felicitations of Mont- 
ferrat ! " 
"Of Bourbon, Madam! " cried a voice beside her. 
" Of Savoy, your Grace ! " said another. 
" Of Coucy, of Courtenay, of Metz — " the voices 
all rang at once, as the lords pressed round her, for 
she had not been seen since she had left the field 
after her fall. 
" I thank you," she answered, with a careless smile. 
" But you should ihank also the man who saved my 
life, if you love me." 
"Madam, we have," replied Montferrat. "And if 
youx Grace will but let me have the man, I will 
do him much honour for your Highness's sake." 
"He is no vassal of mine," Eleanor said. "He 
is a poor English gentleman, cheated of his lands, 
a friend of young Henry Plantagenet. " 
"The friend of a boy!" The Count laughed' 
lightly. 
But Eleanor grew thoughtful on a sudden, for 
beyond her rare beauty and her splendid youth, and 
within her world of impatient passion, there were 
wisdom and knowledge of men. 
"A boy? Yes, he may be fourteen years old, 
not more. But there are boys who are not children, 
even in their cradles, and there are men who are 
nothing else — their swaddling-clothes outgrown, 
and their milk teeth cast, but not their whimpering 
and fretting." 
The nobles were silent, for she spoke over-boldly 
and meant the King, as they knew. 
"As for this Englishman," she continued after 
an instant's pause, " he is not mine to give you, my 
lord Count. And as for doing him honour for his 
brave deed, though I would gladly please you, I 
should be loth to let you do my duty for your 
pleasure. " 
She smiled again very graciously, for she waa 
glad that men should praise Gilbert Warde to her ; 
and it was strangely pleasant to think that no one 
guessed half of what she would give him if he 
would take it. For among the nobles there were 
great lords, goodly men and young, who dreamed of 
her fair face, but would not have dared to lift up 
their eyes to her. 
So she passed out, with her knights behind her, 
and most of the lords and barons followed her at 
a -distance, leaving the King within. 
When she was gone he rose slowly, and giving 
his sword to the chamberlain who stood waiting, he 
went to his chapel tent, with downcast eyes and 
clasped hands, as if walking in a solemn procession. 
A little bell rang, the sun was low, and it was the 
 
hour of the Benediction. The King knelt down 
before the rich altar, and when he had prayed ear- 
nestly for strength and courage, and for wisdom to 
win the war of the Cross, he prayed from the bottom 
of his unhappy heart that, if it were the will of 
Heaven, he might by some means be delivered from 
the woman of Belial who marred his life and bur- 
dened his soul. 
CHAPTER XVI 
To the south side of the camp the Germans came 
by thousands, all that day and far into the night, 
weary, half starved, on jaded beasts that could hardly 
set one foot before the other, or on foot themselves, 
reeling like men drunk, and almost blind with ex- 
haustion. But the panic had not lasted long, for 
the few score of Seljuk riders who had fallen upon 
the van of the retreating column for the last time had 
been finally scattered by the Duke of Suabia, so that 
the remainder of the army came in with a show of 
order, bringing the greater part of the baggage. 
The Seljuks had not attempted to carry away plun- 
der, which would have hampered them in their 
dashing charges and instant retreats. 
Last of all, before daybreak, came the Emperor 
himself, covering the rear of his army with chosen 
men, untired, though his great horse was staggering 
under him, alert and strong as if he had not been 
in the saddle the better part of four days and nights. 
He seemed a man of iron ; and few could ride with 
him, or watch with him, or fight with him. 
When the sun rose, the great standard of the Holy 
Roman Empire waved before the imperial tent, and 
though he had not rested, Conrad knelt beside King 
Louis at early mass. Far to southward the German 
tents rose in long lines by the shore of the lake, 
 
where Eleanor had displayed her troop on the 
previous day, and countless little squads of men 
with mules came and went between the camp and 
the distant walled city of Nicsea. In the French 
lines, where the first preparations had been made for 
marching, men were again unpacking their belong- 
ings ; for word had gone round at midnight that the 
Emperor was safe, and needed no help, and would 
be in the camp in the morning. 
Then there was secret rejoicing among the ladies, 
and those who had no bruise nor scratch from 
yesterday's accidents called their tirewomen and 
spent happy hours, holding up their little silver 
mirrors to their hair, and holding them down to see 
the clasp at the throat, and trying some of the silks 
and embroideries which they had received as gifts 
from the Greek Emperor. It was almost a miracle 
that none but Beatrix should have been gravely 
hurt, but many were a little bruised and much tired, 
and altogether inclined to ask sympathy of the 
rest, receiving visits in their tents and discussing 
the chances of the war and the beauty of Constanti- 
nople, until they began to discuss one another, after 
which the war was not spoken of again on that day. 
Then came the Queen with her attendants, from 
her tent in the midst of the ladies' lines, pitched as 
far as possible from the King's ; and leaving outside 
those who were with her, she went in and sat 
down by Beatrix's bedside. 
The girl was very pale and lay propped up by 
pillows, her eyelids half shut against the light, 
though there was little enough under the thick 
double canvas and a brazier of glowing woodcoals made 
the tent almost too warm. A great Norman woman 
with yellow hair crouched beside her, slowly fanning 
her face with a Greek fan of feathers. The Queen 
stood still a moment, for she had entered softly, and 
Beatrix had not opened her eyes, nor had the woman 
known her in the dimness. But when she recog- 
nized the Queen, the maid's jaw dropped and her 
hand ceased to move. Eleanor took the fan from 
her, and with a gesture bade her make way, and then 
sat down in her place to do her duty. 
Hearing the rustle of skirts and feeling that 
another hand fanned her, the sick girl moved a 
little, but did not open her eyes, for her head hurt 
her, so that she feared the light. 
" Who is it ? " she asked in the voice of pain. 
" Eleanor, " answered the Queen, softly. 
Still fanning, she took the beautiful little white 
hand that lay nearest to her on the edge of the bed. 
Beatrix opened her eyes in wonder, for though the 
Queen was kind, she was not familiar with her ladies. 
The girl started, as if she would have tried to rise. 
"No," said Eleanor, quieting her like a child, 
"no, no! You must not move, my dear. I have 
come to see how you are — there, there 
mean to startle you I " 
She smoothed the soft brown hair, and then, with 
a sudden impulse, kissed the pale forehead, and 
fanned it, and kissed it again, as if Beatrix had 
been one of her own little daughters instead of being 
a grown woman not very far from her own age. 
"I thank your Grace," said Beatrix, faintly. 
" KISSED THE PALK FOEEHEAD ' 
 
" We are nearer than thanks since yesterday. Or 
if there were to be thanking, it should be from me 
to you who followed me with one other, when three 
hundred stayed behind. And we are closer than 
that, for one man saved us both." 
She stopped and looked round. The Norman 
woman was standing respectfully near the door of 
the tent, with eyes cast down and hands hidden 
under the folds of her skirt, which were drawn 
through her girdle in the servants' fashion. 
"Go," said Eleanor, quietly. "I will take care 
of your mistress for a while. And do not stay at 
the door of the tent, but go away." 
The woman bent her head low and disappeared. 
"Yes," Beatrix said, when they were alone, "I 
saw Gilbert Warde stop your horse, and yours 
stopped mine. He saved us both." 
There was silence, and the fan moved softly in 
the Queen's hand. 
" You have loved him long, " she said presently, 
in a tone that questioned. 
Beatrix did not answer at once, and on her smooth 
young forehead two straight lines made straight 
shadows that ended between her half-closed eyes. 
At last she spoke, with an effort. 
"Madam, as you have a soul, do not take him 
from me ! " 
She sighed and withdrew her hand from Eleanor's, 
as if by instinct. The Queen did not start, but for 
an instant her eyes gathered light into themselves 
and her mouth hardened. She glanced at the weak 
girl, broken and suffering, and looking so small 
beside her, and she was angry that Gilbert should 
have chosen anything so pitiful against her own 
lofty beauty. But presently her anger ceased, not 
because it was unopposed, but because she was too 
large-hearted for any meanness. 
"Forget that I am the Queen," she said at last. 
"Only remember that I am a woman and that we 
two love one man." 
Beatrix shivered and moved uneasily on her pil- 
low, pressing her hand to her throat as if something 
choked her. 
" You are cruel ! " Her voice would not serve her 
for more just then, and she stared at the roof of the 
tent. 
"Love is cruel," answered Eleanor, in a low voice, 
and suddenly the hand that held the fan dropped upon 
her knee, and her eyes looked at it thoughtfully. 
But Beatrix roused herself. There was more 
courage and latent energy in the slight girl than 
any one dreamed. Her words came clearly. 
"Yours is — not mine! For his sake you call 
yourself a woman like me, but for his sake only. 
Is your face nothing, is your power nothing, is it 
nothing that you can hide me from him at your 
pleasure, or let me see him as you will ? What is 
any one to you, who can toss a king aside like a 
broken toy when he thwarts you, who can make 
war upon empires with no man's help, if you choose? 
Is Gilbert a god that he should not yield to you? 
Is he above men that he should not forget me, and 
go to you, the most beautiful woman in the world, 
and the most daring, and the most powerful — to you, 
 
Eleanor of Guienne, Queen of France? You haye 
all; you want that one thing more which is all I 
have! You are right — love is cruel! " 
The Queen listened in silence, too generous still 
to smile at the girl, too much in earnest to be hurt. 
"A man has a right to choose for himself," she 
answered when Beatrix paused at last. 
"Yes, but you take that right from him. You 
thrust a choice upon him — that is your cruelty." 
"How?" 
"Look at me and look at yourself. Would any 
man think twice in choosing ? And yet —  " a faint 
smile flickered in the mask of pain —  " in Constanti- 
nople — in the garden — " 
She stopped, happy for a moment in the memory 
of his defence of her. The Queen was silent and 
faintly blushed for her cruel speech on that day. 
She could have done worse deeds and been less 
ashamed before herself. But Beatrix went on. 
"Besides," she said, turning her suffering eyes 
to Eleanor's face, "your love is sinful, mine is not." 
The Queen's look darkened suddenly. This was 
different ground. 
"Leave priests' talk to priests," she answered 
curtly. 
"It will soon be the talk of other men besides 
priests," reproved Beatrix. 
"For that matter, are you better?" retorted the 
Queen. " Have you not told me that your father has 
married his mother ? You are far within the forbidden 
degrees of affinity. You cannot marry Gilbert Warde 
any more than I can. Where is the difference ? " 
" You know it as well as I." The young girl 
turned her face away. "You know as well as I 
that the Church can pass over what is a mere legal 
regulation to hinder marriages made only for for- 
tune's sake. I am not so ignorant as you think. 
And you know what your love for Gilbert Warde 
is, before God and man ! " 
The blood rose in her white face as she spoke. 
After that there was silence for some time ; but 
presently the Queen began to fan Beatrix again, 
and mechanically smoothed the coverlet. There 
are certain things which a womanly woman would 
do for her worst enemy almost unconsciously, and 
Eleanor was far from hating her rival. Strong and 
unthwarted from her childhood, and disappointed 
in her marriage, she had grown to look upon her- 
self as a being above laws of heaven or earth, and 
answerable to no one for her deeds. Feminine in 
heart and passion, she was manlike in mind and in 
her indifference to opinion. Save for Gilbert, she 
liked Beatrix ; yet, as matters stood, she both looked 
upon her as an obstacle and was sorry for her at 
the same time. Not being in any way confident 
of Gilbert's love herself, the girl she pitied and half 
liked was as much her rival as the most beautiful 
woman in Europe could have been. She was made 
up of strong contrasts — generous yet often unfor- 
giving ; strong as a man yet capricious as a child ; 
tender as a woman, and then in turn sudden, fierce, 
and dangerous as a tigress. 
Beatrix made a feeble gesture as if she would not be 
fanned by the hand that was against her, but the Queen 
 
paid no attention to the refusal. The silence lasted 
long, and then she spoke quietly and thoughtfully. 
" You have a right to say what you will," she 
began, "for I sat down beside you, as one woman 
by another, and you have taken me at my word. 
Love is the very blood of equality. You blame 
me, and I do not blame you, though I brought up 
the Church's rule against your love. You are right 
in all you say, and I am sinful. I grant you that 
freely, and I will grant also that if I had my due 
I should be doing penance on my knees instead of 
defending my sins to you if indeed I am defending 
them. But do you think that our bad deeds are 
weighed only against the unattainable perfection of 
saints' and martyrs' lives, and never at all against 
the splendid temptations that are the royal garments 
of sin ? God is just, and justice weaves a fair judg- 
ment. It is not an unchangeable standard. A 
learned Greek in Constantinople was telling me the 
other day a story of one Procrustes, a terrible high- 
way robber. He had a bed which he offered to 
those he took captive, on condition that they should 
exactly fit its length ; and if a man was too long, the 
robber hewed off his feet by so much, but if he was 
too short, he stretched him on a rack until he was 
tall enough. If God were to judge me as He judges 
you, by a ruled length of virtue, alike for all and 
without allowance for our moral height, God would 
not be God, but Procrustes, a robber of souls and a 
murderer of them." 
"You speak very blasphemously," said Beatrix, 
in a low voice. 
" No ; I speak justly. You and I both love one 
man. In you, love is virtue, in me it is sin. You 
blame me with right, but you blame me too much. 
You tell me that I am beautiful, powerful, the Queen 
of France, and it is true. But even you do not tell 
me that I am happy, for you know that I am not." 
" And therefore you would rob me of all I have, 
to make your happiness, when you have so much 
that I have not ! Is that your justice ? " 
" No," answered Eleanor, almost sadly, " it is not 
justice. It is my excuse to God and man, before 
whom you say I am condemned." 
The girl roused herself again, and though it was 
sharp pain to move, she raised her weight upon her 
elbow and looked straight into the Queen's eyes. 
" You argue and you make excuses," she said 
boldly. " I ask for none. I ask only that you 
should not take the one happiness I have out of my 
life. You say that we are speaking as woman to 
woman. What right have you to the man I love? 
No, do not answer me with another dissertation on 
the soul. Woman to woman, tell me what right 
you have ? " 
" If he loves me, is that no right ? " 
" If he loves you ? Oh, no ! He does not love 
you yet ! " 
"He saved me yesterday — not you," answered 
the Queen, cruelly, and she remembered his eyes. 
" Does a man risk his life desperately, as he did, for 
the woman he loves, or for another, when both are 
in like danger?" 
" It was not you, it was the Queen he saved. It 
 
is right tliat a loyal man should save his sovereign 
first. I do not blame him. I should not have 
blamed him had I been more hurt than I am." 
"I am not his sovereign, and he is no vassal of 
mine." Eleanor smiled coldly, " He is an English- 
man." 
" You play with words," answered Beatrix, as she 
would have spoken to an equal. 
" Take care ! " 
They faced each other, and on the instant the fierce 
pride of royalty sprang up, as at an insult. But 
Beatrix was brave — a sick girl against the Queen 
of France. 
" If you are not his sovereign, you are not mine," 
she said. "And were you ten times my Queen, 
there can be no fence of royalty between you and 
me from this hour, or if there is, you are doubly 
playing with the meaning of what your lips say. 
Are you to be a woman to me, a woman, at one 
moment, and a sovereign to me, a subject, at the 
next ? Which is it to be ? " 
"A woman, then, if nothing more. And as a 
woman, I tell you that I will have Gilbert Warde 
for myself, body and soul. " 
The girl's eyes lightened suddenly. Men said that 
in her mother's veins there had run some of the 
Conqueror's blood, and his great oath sprang to her 
lips as she answered : — 
"And by the splendour of God, I tell you that 
you shall not ! " 
" Then it is a duel between us," the Queen said, 
and she turned to go. 
" To death," answered the girl, as her head sank 
back upon the pillows, pitifully weak and tired in 
her aching body, but dauntless in spirit. 
Eleanor crossed the carpeted floor of the tent 
slowly toward the door. She had not made four 
steps when she stood still, looking before her. A 
great shame of herself came upon her for what she 
had said — the loyal, generous shame of the strong 
who in anger has been overbearing with the weak. 
She stood still, and she felt as an honest man does 
who has struck a fallen enemy in unreasoning rage. 
It was the second time that she had fallen so low 
in her own eyes, and her own scorn of herself was 
more than she could bear. 
Quickly she came back to Beatrix's side. The 
