XXII 
Eighteen days elapsed, and she had begun 
to think it probable she should never see 
him again. He too then understood now: 
he had made out that she had secrets and 
reasons and impediments, that even a poor 
girl at the P. O. might have her complica 
tions. With the charm she had cast on him 
lightened by distance he had suffered a final 
delicacy to speak to him, had made up his 
mind that it would be only decent to let her 
alone. Never so much as during these 
latter days had she felt the precariousness 
of their relation the happy, beautiful, 
untroubled original one, if it could only 
have been restored in which the public 
servant and the casual public only were 
concerned. It hung at the best by the 
merest silken thread, which was at the 
mercy of any accident and might snap at 
any minute. She arrived by the end of the 
fortnight at the highest sense of actual 
fitness, never doubting that her decision was 
now complete. She would just give him a 
few days more to come back to her on a 
proper impersonal basis for even to an 
embarrassing representative of the casual 
public a public servant with a conscience did 
owe something and then would signify to 
Mr. Mudge that she was ready for the little 
home. It had been visited, in the further 
talk she had had with him at Bournemouth, 
from garret to cellar, and they had especially 
lingered, with their respectively darkened 
brows, before the niche into which it was to 
be broached to her mother that she was to 
find means to fit. 
He had put it to her more definitely than 
before that his calculations had allowed for 
that dingy presence, and he had thereby 
marked the greatest impression he had ever 
made on her. It was a stroke superior even 
again to his handling of the drunken soldier. 
What she considered that, in the face of it, 
she hung on at Cocker 's for, was some- 
thing that she could only have described as 
the common fairness of a last word. Her 
actual last word had been, till it should be 
superseded, that she wouldn't abandon her 
other friend, and it stuck to her, through 
thick and thin, that she was still at her post 
and on her honor. This other friend had 
shown so much beauty of conduct already 
that he would surely, after all, just reappear 
long enough to relieve her, to give her 
something she could take away. She saw 
it, caught it, at times, his parting present; 
and there were moments when she felt her 
self sitting like a beggar with a hand held 
out to an almsgiver who only fumbled. She 
hadn't taken the sovereigns, but she would 
take the penny. She heard, in imagination, 
on the counter, the ring of the copper. 
Don't put yourself out any longer, he 
would say, for so bad a case. You've done 
all there is to be done. I thank and acquit 
and release you. Our lives take us. I don't 
know much though I have really been 
interested about yours ; but I suppose 
you've got one. Mine, at any rate, will take 
me and where it will. Heigh-ho! Good 
bye. And then once more, for the sweet 
est, faintest flower of all: Only I say see 
here!" She had framed the whole picture 
with a squareness that included also the 
image of how again she would decline to 
see there, decline, as she might say, to see 
anywhere or anything. Yet it befell that 
just in the fury of this escape she saw more 
than ever. 
He came back one night with a rush, near 
the moment of their closing, and showed her 
a face so different and new, so upset and 
anxious, that almost anything seemed to 
look out of it but clear recognition. He 
poked in a telegram very much as if the 
simple sense of pressure, the distress of 
extreme haste, had blurred the remembrance 
of where in particular he was. But as she 
met his eyes a light came; it broke indeed 
on the spot into a positive, conscious glare. 
That made up for everything, for it was an 
instant proclamation of the celebrated dan- 
ger ; it seemed to pour things out in a flood. 
Oh yes, here it is it 's upon me at last! 
Forget, for God 's sake, my having worried 
or bored you, and just help me, just save 
me, by getting this off without the loss of a 
second ! Something grave had clearly 
occurred, a crisis declared itself. She 
recognized immediately the person to whom 
the telegram was addressed the Miss Dol 
man, of Parade Lodge, to whom Lady 
Bradeen had wired, at Dover, on the last 
occasion, and whom she had then, with her 
recollection of previous arrangements, fitted 
into a particular setting. Miss Dolman had 
figured before and not figured since, but she 
was now the subject of an imperative appeal. 
Absolutely necessary to see you. Take last 
train Victoria if you can catch it. If not, 
earliest morning, and answer me direct 
either way. 
Reply paid? said the girl. Mr. Buckton 
had just departed, and the counter - clerk 
was at the sounder. There was no other 
representative of the public and she had 
never yet, as it seemed to her, not even in 
the street or in the Park, been so alone with 
him. 
Oh yes, reply paid, and as sharp as possi 
ble, please. 
She affixed the stamps in a flash She ll 
catch the train! she then declared to him 
breathlessly, as if she could absolutely guar 
antee it. 
I don't know I hope so. It 's awfully 
important. So kind of you. Awfully sharp, 
please. It was wonderfully innocent now, 
his oblivion of all but his danger. Anything 
else that had ever passed between them was 
utterly out of it. Well, she had wanted him 
to be impersonal ! 
There was less of the same need, there 
fore, happily for herself ; yet she only took 
time, before she flew to the sounder, to gasp 
at him: You're in trouble? 
Horrid, there 's a row! But they parted, 
on it, in the next breath, and as she dashed 
at the sounder, almost pushing, in her 
violence, the counter-clerk off the stool, she 
caught the bang with which, at Cocker 's 
door, in his further precipitation, he closed 
the apron of the cab into which he had 
leaped. As he rushed off to some other 
precaution suggested by his alarm his appeal 
to Miss Dolman flashed straight away. 
But she had not on the morrow, been in 
the place five minutes before he was with 
her again, still more discomposed and quite, 
now, as she said to herself, like a frightened 
child coming to its mother. Her compan 
ions were there, and she felt it to be 
remarkable how, in the presence of his 
agitation, his mere scared, exposed nature, 
she suddenly ceased to mind. It came to her 
as it had never come to her before that with 
absolute directness and assurance they might 
carry almost anything off. He had nothing 
to send she was sure he had been wiring 
all over and yet his business was evidently 
huge. There was nothing but that in his 
eyes not a glimmer of reference or memory. 
He was almost haggard with anxiety and 
had clearly not slept a wink. Her pity for 
him would have given her any courage, and 
she seemed to know at last why she had been 
such a fool. She didn' t come ? she panted. 
Oh yes, she came, but there has been 
some mistake. We want a telegram. 
A telegram? 
One that was sent from here ever so long 
ago. There was something in it that has to 
be recovered. Something very, very im 
portant, please we want it immediately. 
He really spoke to her as if she had been 
some strange young woman at Knights- 
bridge or Paddington ; but it had no other 
effect on her than to give her the measure of 
his tremendous flurry. Then it was that, 
above all, she felt how much she had missed 
in the gaps and blanks and absent answers 
how much she had had to dispense with : it 
was black darkness now, save for this little 
wild red flare. So much as that she saw and 
possessed. One of the lovers was quaking 
somewhere out of town, and the other was 
quaking just where he stood. This was 
vivid enough, and after an instant she knew 
it was all she wanted. She wanted no 
detail, no fact she wanted no nearer vision 
of discovery or shame. When was your 
telegram? Do you mean you sent it from 
here? She tried to do the young woman at 
Knightsbridge. 
k Oh yes, from here several weeks ago. 
Five, six, seven he was confused and 
impatient don't you remember? 
Remember? she could scarcely keep out 
of her face, at the word, the strangest of 
smiles. 
But the way he didn' t catch what it meant 
was perhaps even stranger still. I mean, 
don't you keep the old ones? 
For a certain time. 
But how long? 
She thought; she must do the young 
woman, and she knew exactly what the 
young woman would say and, still more, 
wouldn t. Can you give me the date? 
Oh God, no! It was some time or other 
in August toward the end. It was to the 
same address as the one I gave you last night. 
Oh! said the girl, knowing at this the 
deepest thrill she had ever felt. It came to 
her there, with her eyes on his face, that 
she held the whole thing in her hand, held 
it as she held her pencil, which might have 
broken at that instant in her tightened grip. 
This made her feel like the very fountain 
of fate, but the emotion was such a flood 
that she had to press it back with all her 
force. That was positively the reason, 
again, of her flute-like Paddington tone. 
You can't give us anything a little 
nearer? Her little and her us came 
straight from Paddington. These things 
were no false note for him his difficulty 
absorbed them all. The eyes with which 
he pressed her, and in the depths of which 
she read terror and rage and literal tears, 
were just the same he would have shown any 
other prim person. 
I don't know the date. I only know the 
thing went from here, and just about the 
time I speak of. It wasn' t delivered, you 
see. We've got to recover it. 
XXIII 
She was as struck with the beauty of his 
plural pronoun as she had judged he might 
be with that of her own ; but she knew now 
so well what she was about that she could 
almost play with him and with her new 
born joy. You say "about the time you 
speak of." But I don't think you speak of 
an exact time do you? 
He looked splendidly helpless. That 's 
just what I want to find out. Don't you 
keep the old ones? can't you look it up? 
Our young lady still at Paddington 
turned the question over. It wasn' t deliv 
ered? 
Yts it was; yet, at the same time, don't 
you know? it wasn' t. He jnist hung back, 
but he brought it out. I mean it was 
intercepted, don't you know? and there was 
something in it. He paused again and, as 
if to further his quest and woo and suppli- 
cate success and recovery, even smiled with 
an effort at the agreeable that was almost 
ghastly and that turned the knife in her 
tenderness. What must be the pain of it 
all, of the open gulf and the throbbing 
fever, when this was the mere hot breath? 
We want to get what was in it to know 
what it was. 
I see I see." She managed just the 
accent they had at Paddington when they 
stared like dead fish. And you have no 
clue? 
Not at all I've the clue I've just given 
you. 
Oh, the last of August? If she kept it 
up long enough she would make him really 
angry. 
Yes, and the address, as I've said. 
Oh, the same as last night? 
He visibly quivered, as if with a gleam 
of hope; but it only poured oil on her 
quietude, and she was still deliberate. She 
ranged some papers. Won't you look? he 
went on. 
I remember your coming, she replied. 
He blinked with a new uneasiness; it 
might have begun to come to him, through 
her difference, that he was somehow differ 
ent himself. You were much quicker then, 
you know ! 
So were you you must do me that 
justice, she answered with a smile. But 
let me see. Wasn' t it Dover? 
Yes, Miss Dolman 
Parade Lodge, Parade Terrace? 
Exactly thank you so awfully much! 
He began to hope again. Then you have 
it the other one? 
She hesitated afresh; she quite dangled 
him. It was brought by a lady? 
Yes; and she put in by mistake some 
thing wrong. That 's what we've got to get 
hold of! 
Heavens, what was he going to say? 
flooding poor Paddington with wild be 
trayals ! She couldn't too much, for her joy, 
dangle him, yet she couldn't either, for his 
dignity, warn or control or check him. 
What she found herself doing was just to 
treat herself to the middle way. It was 
intercepted? 
It fell into the wrong hands. But there 's 
something in it, he continued to blurt out, 
that may be all right. That is if it 's wrong, 
don't you know? It 's all right if it 's wrong, 
he remarkably explained. 
What was he, on earth, going to say? Mr. 
Buckton and the counter-clerk were already 
interested ; no one would have the decency 
to come in ; and she was divided between 
her particular terror for him and her general 
curiosity. Yet she already saw with what 
brilliancy she could add, to carry the thing 
off, a little false knowledge to all her real. 
I quite understand, she said with benev 
olent, with almost patronizing quickness. 
The lady has forgotten what she did put. 
Forgotten most wretchedly, and it 's an 
immense inconvenience. It has only just 
been found that it didn' t get there ; so that 
if we could immediately have it 
Immediately? 
Every minute counts. You have, he 
pleaded, surely got them on file. 
So that you can see it on the spot? 
Yes, please this very minute. The 
counter rang with his knuckles, with the 
knob of his stick, with his panic of alarm. 
Do, do hunt it up ! he repeated. 
I dare say we could get it for you, the 
girl sweetly returned. 
Get it ? he looked aghast. When ? 
Probably by to-morrow. 
Then it isn' t here? his face was pitiful. 
She caught only the uncovered gleams 
that peeped out of the blackness, and she 
wondered what complication, even among 
the most supposable, the very worst, could 
be bad enough to account for the degree 
of his terror. There were twists and turns, 
there were places where the screw drew 
blood, that she couldn't guess. She was 
more and more glad she didn' t want to. It 
has been sent on. 
But how do you know if you don't look? 
She gave him a smile that was meant to 
be, in the absolute irony of its propriety, 
quite divine. It was August 23rd, and we 
have nothing later here than August 27th. 
Something leaped into his face. 27th 
23rd? Then you're sure? You know? 
She felt she scarce knew what as if she 
might soon be pounced upon for some lurid 
connection with a scandal. It was the 
queerest of all sensations, for she had heard, 
she had read, of these things and the wealth 
of her intimacy with them at Cocker 's might 
be supposed to have schooled and seasoned 
her. This particular one that she had really 
quite lived with was, after all, an old story ; 
yet what it had been before was dim and 
distant beside the touch under which she 
now winced. Scandal? it had never been 
but a silly word. Now it was a great palpa 
ble surface, and the surface was somehow, 
Captain Everhard 's wonderful face. Deep 
down in his eyes was a picture, the vision of 
a great place like a chamber of justice, 
where, before a watching crowd, a poor girl, 
exposed but heroic, swore with a quavering 
voice to a document, proved an alibi, sup 
plied a link. In this picture she bravely 
took her place. It was the 23rd. 
Then can't you get it this morning or 
some time to-day? 
She considered, still holding him with her 
look, which she then turned on her two 
companions, who were by this time unre 
servedly enlisted. She didn' t care not a 
scrap, and she glanced about for a piece of 
paper. With this she had to recognize the 
rigour of official thrift a morsel of black 
ened blotter was the only loose paper to be 
seen. Have you got a card? she said to 
her visitor. He was quite away from Pad- 
dington now, and the next instant, with a 
pocket-pook in his hand, he had whipped a 
card out. She gave no glance at the name 
on it only turned it to the other side. She 
continued to hold him, she felt at present, as 
she had never held him ; and her command 
of her colleagues was, for the moment, not 
less marked. She wrote something on the 
back of the card and pushed it across to him. 
i 9 2   
He fairly glared at it. Seven, nine, 
four 
Nine, six, one she obligingly completed 
the number. Is it right? she smiled. 
He took the whole thing in with a flushed 
intensity; then there broke out in him a 
visibility of relief that was simply a tremen 
dous exposure. He shone at them all like 
a tall lighthouse, embracing even, for sym 
pathy, the blinking young man. By all the 
powers it 's wrong! And without another 
look, without a word of thanks, without 
time for anything or anybody, he turned on 
them the broad back of his great stature, 
straightened his triumphant shoulders and 
strode out of the place. 
She was left confronted with her habitual 
critics. "If it 's wrong it 's all right!" she 
extravagantly quoted to them. 
The counter-clerk was really awe-stricken. 
But how did you know, dear? 
I remembered, love! 
Mr. Buckton, on the contrary, was rude. 
And what game is that, Miss? 
No happiness she had ever known came 
within miles of it, and some minutes elapsed 
before she could recall herself sufficiently 
to reply that it was none of his business. 
XXIV 
If life at Cocker 's with the dreadful drop 
of August, had lost something of its savour, 
she had not been slow to infer that a heavier 
blight had fallen on the graceful industry of 
Mrs. Jordan. With Lord Rye and Lady 
Ventnor and Mrs. Bubb all out of town, 
with the blinds down on all the homes of 
luxury, this ingenious woman might well 
have found her wonderful taste left quite on 
her hands. She bore up, however, in a way 
that began by exciting much of her young 
friend 's esteem; they perhaps even more 
frequently met as the wine of life flowed 
less free from other sources, and each, in 
the lack of better diversion, carried on with 
more mystification for the other an inter 
course that consisted not a little of peeping 
out and drawing back. Each waited for 
the other to commit herself, each profusely 
curtained for the other the limits of low 
horizons. Mrs. Jordan was indeed probably 
the more reckless skirmisher ; nothing could 
exceed her frequent incoherence unless it 
was indeed her occasional bursts of con 
fidence. Her account of her private affairs 
rose and fell like a flame in the wind 
sometimes the bravest bonfire and some 
times a handful of ashes. This our young 
woman took to be an effect of the position, 
at one moment and another, of the famous 
door of the great world. She had been 
struck in one of her ha penny volumes with 
the translation of a French proverb accord 
ing to which a door had to be either open or 
shut; and it seemed a part of the precari- 
ousness of Mrs. Jordan 's life that hers mostly 
managed to be neither. There had been 
occasions when it appeared to gape wide 
fairly to woo her across its threshold ; there 
had been others, of an order distinctly dis 
concerting, when it was all but banged in 
her face. On the whole, however, she had 
evidently not lost heart ; these still belonged 
to the class of things in spite of which she 
looked well. She intimated that the profits 
of her trade had swollen so as to float her 
through any state of the tide, and she had, 
besides this, a hundred profundities and 
explanations. 
She rose superior, above all, on the happy 
fact that there were always gentlemen in 
town and that gentlemen were her greatest 
admirers ; gentlemen from the city in 
especial as to whom she was full of in 
formation about the passion and pride 
excited in such breasts by the objects of 
her charming commerce. The city men 
did, in short, go in for flowers. There 
was a certain type of awfully smart stock 
broker Lord Rye called them Jews and 
bounders, but she didn' t care whose 
extravagance, she more than once threw 
out, had really, if one had any conscience, 
to be forcibly restrained. It was not per 
haps a pure love of beauty : it was a matter 
of vanity and a sign of business; they 
wished to crush their rivals, and that was 
one of their weapons. Mrs. Jordan 's 
shrewdness was extreme ; she knew, in any 
case, her customer she dealt, as she said, 
with all sorts; and it was, at the worst, a 
race for her a race even in the dull months 
from one set of chambers to another. And 
then, after all, there were also still the 
ladies; the ladies of stockbroking circles 
were perpetually up and down. They were 
not quite perhaps Mrs. Bubb or Lady Vent- 
nor; but you couldn't tell the difference 
unless you quarrelled with them, and then 
you knew it only by their making up sooner. 
These ladies formed the branch of her sub 
ject on which she most swayed in the breeze ; 
to that degree that her confidant had ended 
with an inference or two tending to banish 
regret for opportunities not embraced. 
There were indeed tea - gowns that Mrs. 
Jordan described but tea-gowns were not 
the whole of respectability, and it was odd 
that a clergyman 's widow should sometimes 
speak as if she almost thought so. She 
came back, it was true, unfailingly, to Lord 
Rye, never, evidently, quite losing sight of 
him even on the longest excursions. That 
he was kindness itself had become in fact 
the very moral it all pointed pointed in 
strange flashes of the poor woman 's near 
sighted eyes. She launched at her young 
friend many portentous looks, solemn 
heralds of some extraordinary communica 
tion. The communication itself, from week 
to week, hung fire ; but it was to the facts 
over which it hovered that she owed her 
power of going on. They are, in one way 
and another, she often emphasised, a tower 
of strength ; and as the allusion was to the 
aristocracy the girl could quite wonder why, 
if they were so in one way, they should 
require to be so in two. She thoroughly 
knew, however, how many ways Mrs. Jordan 
counted in. It all meant simply that her 
fate was pressing her close. If that fate 
was to be sealed at the matrimonial altar 
it was perhaps not remarkable that she 
shouldn't come all at once to the scratch of 
overwhelming a mere telegraphist. It 
would necessarily present to such a person 
a prospect of regretful sacrifice. Lord Rye 
if it was Lord Rye wouldn't be kind to 
a nonentity of that sort, even though people 
quite as good had been. 
One Sunday afternoon in November they 
went, by arrangement, to church together; 
after which on the inspiration of the mo 
ment ; the arrangement had not included it 
they proceeded to Mrs. Jordan 's lodging in 
the region of Maida Vale. She had raved to 
her friend about her service of predilection ; 
she was excessively high and had more 
than once wished to introduce the girl to the 
same comfort and privilege. There was a 
thick brown fog, and Maida Vale tasted of 
acrid smoke; but they had been sitting 
among chants and incense and wonderful 
music, during which, though the effect of 
such things on her mind was great, our 
young lady had indulged in a series of 
reflections but indirectly related to them. 
One of these was the result of Mrs. Jordan 's 
having said to her on the way, and with a 
certain fine significance, that Lord Rye had 
been for some time in town. She had 
spoken as if it were a circumstance to which 
little required to be added as if the bearing 
of such an item on her life might easily be 
grasped. Perhaps it was the wonder of 
whether Lord Rye wished to marry her that 
made her guest, with thoughts straying to 
that quarter, quite determine that some 
other nuptials also should take place at St. 
Julian's. Mr. Mudge was still an attendant 
at his Wesleyan chapel, but this was the 
least of her worries it had never even 
vexed her enough for her to so much as 
name it to Mrs. Jordan. Mr. Mudge 's form 
of worship was one of several things they 
made up in superiority and beauty for what 
they wanted in number that she had long 
ago settled he should take from her, and 
she had now moreover for the first time 
definitely established her own. Its princi 
pal feature was that it was to be the same 
as that of Mrs. Jordan and Lord Rye ; which 
was indeed very much what she said to her 
hostess as they sat together later on. The 
brown fog was in this hostess 's little par 
lour, where it acted as a postponement of 
the question of there being, besides, any 
thing else than the teacups and a pewter 
pot, and a very black little fire, and a 
paraffin lamp without a shade. There was at 
any rate no sign of a flower; it was not for 
herself Mrs. Jordan gathered sweets. The 
girl waited till they had had a cup of tea 
waited for the announcement that she fairly 
believed her friend had, this time, possessed 
herself of her formally at last to make ; but 
nothing came, after the interval, save a little 
poke at the fire, which was like the clearing 
of the throat for a speech. 
XXV 
I think you must have heard me speak 
of Mr. Drake ? Mrs. Jordan had never 
looked so queer, nor her smile so suggestive 
of a large benevolent bite. 
Mr. Drake? Oh yes; isn' t he a friend of 
Lord Rye? 
A great and trusted friend. Almost I 
may say a loved friend. 
Mrs. Jordan 's almost had such an oddity 
that her companion was moved, rather flip 
pantly perhaps, to take it up. Don't people 
as good as love their friends when they 
"trust" them? 
It pulled up a little the eulogist of Mr. 
Drake. Well, my dear, I love you 
But you don't trust me? the girl unmer 
cifully asked. 
Again Mrs. Jordan paused still she 
looked queer. Yes, she replied with a cer 
tain austerity ; that 's exactly what I'm 
about to give you rather a remarkable proof 
of. The sense of its being remarkable was 
already so strong that, while she bridled a 
little, this held her auditor in a momentary 
muteness of submission. Mr. Drake has 
rendered his lordship, for several years, 
services that his lordship has highly appre 
ciated and that make it all the more a 
unexpected that they should, perhaps a little 
suddenly, separate. 
Separate? Our young lady was mysti 
fied, but she tried to be interested ; and she 
already saw that she had put the saddle on 
the wrong horse. She had heard something 
of Mr. Drake, who was a member of his 
lordship 's circle the member with whom, 
apparently, Mrs. Jordan 's avocations had 
most happened to throw her. She was only 
a little puzzled at the separation. Well, 
at any rate, she smiled, if they separate as 
friends ! 
Oh, his lordship takes the greatest 
interest in Mr. Drake 's future. He ll do 
anything for him ; he has, in fact, just done 
a great deal. There must, you know, be 
changes ! 
No one knows it better than I, the girl 
said. She wished to draw her interlocutress 
out. There will be changes enough for 
me. 
You're leaving Cocker's? 
The ornament of that establishment 
waited a moment to answer, and then it 
was indirect. Tell me what you're doing. 
Well, what will you think of it? 
Why, that you've found the opening you 
were always so sure of. 
Mrs. Jordan, on this, appeared to muse 
with embarrassed intensity. I was always 
sure, yes and yet I often wasn' t! 
Well, I hope you're sure now. Sure, I 
mean, of Mr. Drake. 
Yes, my dear, I think I may say I am. 
I kept him going till I was. 
Then he 's yours? 
My very own. 
How nice ! And awfully rich ! our young 
woman went on. 
Mrs. Jordan showed promptly enough 
that she loved for higher things. Awfully 
handsome six foot two. And he has put by. 
Quite like Mr. Mudge, then! that gentle 
man 's friend rather desperately exclaimed. 
Oh, not quite! Mr. Drake 's was ambigu 
ous about it, but the name of Mr. Mudge had 
evidently given her some sort of stimulus. 
He ll have more opportunity now, at any 
rate. He 's going to Lady Bradeen. 
To Lady Bradeen? This was bewilder 
ment. "Going ?" 
The girl had seen, from the way Mrs. 
Jordan looked at her, that the effect of the 
name had been to make her let something 
out. Do you know her? 
She hesitated; then she found her feet. 
Well, you ll remember I've often told 
you that if you had grand clients, I have 
them too. 
Yes, said Mrs. Jordan; but the great 
difference is that you hate yours, whereas I 
really love mine. Do you know Lady 
Bradeen? she pursued. 
Down to the ground! She 's always in 
and out. 
Mrs. Jordan 's foolish eyes confessed, in 
fixing themselves on this sketch, to a degree 
of wonder and even of envy. But she bore 
up and, with a certain gaiety, Do you hate 
her? she demanded. 
Her visitor 's reply was prompt. Dear 
no not nearly so much as some of them. 
She 's too outrageously beautiful. 
Mrs. Jordan continued to gaze. Out 
rageously? 
Well, yes; deliciously. What was really 
delicious was Mrs. Jordan 's vagueness. 
You don't know her you've not seen her? 
her guest lightly continued. 
No, but I've heard a great deal about 
her. 
So have I ! our young lady exclaimed. 
Mrs. Jordan looked an instant as if she 
suspected her good faith, or at least her 
seriousness. You know some friend ? 
Of Lady Bradeen's? Oh, yes, I know one. 
Only one? 
The girl laughed out. Only one but 
he 's so intimate. 
Mrs. Jordan just hesitated. He 's a gentleman?
Yes, he 's not a lady. 
Her interlocutress appeared to muse. 
She 's immensely surrounded. 
She will be with Mr. Drake! 
Mrs. Jordan 's gaze became strangely fixed. 
Is she very good-looking? 
The handsomest person I know. 
Mrs. Jordan continued to contemplate. 
Well,  I know some beauties. Then, with 
her odd jerkiness, Do you think she looks 
good? she inquired. 
Because that 's not always the case with 
the good-looking? the other took it up. 
No, indeed, it isn' t: that 's one thing Cock 
er 's has taught me. Still, there are some 
people who have everything. Lady Bra- 
deen, at any rate, has enough: eyes and a 
nose and a mouth, a complexion, a figure 
A figure? Mrs. Jordan almost broke in. 
A figure, a head of hair! The girl made 
a little conscious motion that seemed to let 
the hair all down, and her companion 
watched the wonderful show. But Mr. 
Drake is another ? 
Another? Mrs. Jordan 's thoughts had 
to come back from a distance. 
Of her ladyship 's admirers. He 's "go 
ing," you say, to her? 
At this Mrs. Jordan really faltered. She 
has engaged him. 
Engaged him? our young woman was 
quite at sea. 
In the same capacity as Lord Rye. 
And was Lord Rye engaged? 
XXVI 
Mrs. Jordan looked away from her now 
looked, she thought, rather injured and, as 
if trifled with, even a little angry. The 
mention of Lady Bradeen had frustrated 
for a while the convergence of our heroine 's 
thoughts; but with this impression of her 
old friend 's combined impatience and diffi 
dence they began again to whirl round her, 
and continued it till one of them appeared 
to dart at her, out of the dance, as if with 
a sharp peck. It came to her with a lively 
shock, with a positive sting, that Mr. Drake 
was could it be possible? With the idea 
she found herself afresh on the edge of 
laughter, of a sudden and strange perversity 
of mirth. Mr. Drake loomed, in a swift 
image, before her ; such a figure as she had 
seen in open doorways of houses in Cock 
er 's quarter majestic, middle-aged, erect, 
flanked on either side by a footman and 
taking the name of a visitor. Mr. Drake 
then verily was a person who opened the 
door! Before she had time, however, to 
recover from the effect of her evocation, 
she was offered a vision which quite en 
gulfed it. It was communicated to her 
somehow that the face with which she had 
seen it rise prompted Mrs. Jordan to dash, at 
a venture, at something that might attenu 
ate criticism. Lady Bradeen is rearranging 
she 's going to be married. 
Married? The girl echoed it ever so 
soltly, but there it was at last. Didn't you 
know it? 
She summoned all her sturdiness. No, 
she hasn' t told me. 
And her friends haven't they? 
I haven't seen any of them lately. I'm 
not so fortunate as you. 
Mrs. Jordan gathered herself. Then you 
haven't even heard of Lord Bradeen 's 
death? 
Her comrade, unable for a moment to 
speak, gave a slow headshake. You know 
it from Mr. Drake? It was better surely 
not to learn things at all than to learn them 
by the butler. She tells him everything. 
And he tells yon I see. Our young lady 
got up ; recovering her muff and her gloves, 
she smiled. Well, I haven t, unfortunately, 
any Mr. Drake. I congratulate you with all 
my heart. Even without your sort of assist 
ance, however, there 's a trifle here and there 
that I do pick up. I gather that if she 's to 
marry any one, it must quite necessarily be 
my friend. 
Mrs. Jordan was now also on her feet. 
Is Captain Everard your friend? 
The girl considered, drawing on a glove. 
I saw at one time an immense deal of him. 
Mrs. Jordan looked hard at the glove, but 
she had not, after all, waited for that to be 
sorry it was not cleaner. What time was 
that? 
It must have been the time you were 
seeing so much of Mr. Drake. She had 
now fairly taken it in: the distinguished 
person Mrs, Jordan was to marry would 
answer bells and put on coals and superin 
tend, at least, the cleaning of boots for the 
other distinguished person whom she might 
well, whom she might have had, if she had 
wished, so much more to say to. Good 
bye, she added; good-bye. 
Mrs. Jordan, however, again taking her 
muff from her, turned it over, brushed it off 
and thoughtfully peeped into it. Tell me 
this before you go. You spoke just now of 
your own changes. Do you mean that Mr. 
Mudge ? 
Mr. Mudge has had great patience with 
me he has brought me at last to the point. 
We're to be married next month and have a 
nice little home. But he 's only a grocer, 
you know the girl met her friend 's intent 
eyes so that I'm afraid that, with the set 
you've got into, you won't see your way to 
keep up our friendship. 
Mrs. Jordan for a moment made no answer 
to this ; she only held the muff up to her 
face, after which she gave it back. You 
don't like it. I see, I see. 
To her guest 's astonishment there were 
tears now in her eyes. I don't like what? 
the girl asked. 
Why, my engagement. Only, with your 
great cleverness, the poor lady quavered 
out, you put it in your own way. I mean 
that you ll cool off. You already have ! 
And on this, the next instant, her tears 
began to flow. She succumbed to them and 
collapsed; she sank down again, burying 
her face and trying to smother her sobs. 
Her young friend stood there, still in some 
rigour, but taken much by surprise even if 
not yet fully moved to pity. I don't put 
anything in any "way," and I'm very glad 
you're suited. Only, you know, you did put 
to me so splendidly what, even for me, if I 
had listened to you, it might lead to. 
Mrs. Jordan kept up a mild, thin, weak 
wail ; then, drying her eyes, as feebly con 
sidered this reminder. It has led to my 
not starving! she faintly gasped. 
Our young lady, at this, dropped into the 
place beside her, and now, in a rush, the 
small, silly misery was clear. She took her 
hand as a sign of pitying it, then, after 
another instant, confirmed this expression 
with a consoling kiss. They sat there 
together; they looked out, hand in hand, 
into the damp, dusky, shabby little room 
and into the future, of no such very different 
suggestion, at last accepted by each. There 
was no definite utterance, on either side, of 
Mr. Drake 's position in the great world, but 
the temporary collapse of his prospective 
bride threw all further necessary light ; and 
what our heroine saw and felt for in the 
whole business was the vivid reflection of 
her own dreams and delusions and her own 
return to reality. Reality, for the poor 
things they both were, could only be ugli 
ness and obscurity, could never be the 
