“Because she went off in a fly,” Cora explained, “to see, first,
the old hospital. She just loves old hospitals. She asked me if this
isn’t a show-house. I told her”--the girl was anxious to disclaim
responsibility--“that I hadn’t the least idea.”
“It is!” Mr. Prodmore cried almost with ferocity. “I wonder,
on such a speech, what she thought of you!”
Miss Prodmore meditated with distinct humbleness. “I know. She told
me.”
He had looked her up and down. “That you’re really a hopeless
frump?”
Cora, oddly enough, seemed almost to court this description. “That
I’m not, as she rather funnily called it, a show-girl.”
“Think of your having to be reminded--by the very strangers you
pick up,” Mr. Prodmore groaned, “of what my daughter should
pre-eminently be! Your friend, all the same,” he bethought himself,
“is evidently loud.”
“Well, when she comes,” the girl again so far agreed as to reply,
“you’ll certainly hear her. But don’t judge her, papa, till you
do. She’s tremendously clever,” she risked--“there seems to be
nothing she doesn’t know.”
“And there seems to be nothing you do! You’re not tremendously
clever,” Mr. Prodmore pursued; “so you’ll permit me to demand of
you a slight effort of intelligence.” Then, as for the benefit of the
listening walls themselves, he struck the high note. “I’m expecting
Captain Yule.”
Cora’s consciousness blinked. “The owner of this property?”
Her father’s tone showed his reserves. “That’s what it depends on
you to make him!”
“On me?” the girl gasped.
“He came into it three months ago by the death of his great-uncle,
who had lived to ninety-three, but who, having quarrelled mortally with
his father, had always refused to receive either sire or son.”
Our young lady bent her eyes on this page of family history, then
raised them but dimly lighted. “But now, at least, doesn’t he live
here?”
“So little,” her companion replied, “that he comes here today
for the very first time. I’ve some business to discuss with him that
can best be discussed on this spot; and it’s a vital part of that
business that you too should take pains to make him welcome.”
Miss Prodmore failed to ignite. “In his own house?”
“That it’s not his own house is just the point I seek to
make! The way I look at it is that it’s my house! The way I look
at it even, my dear”--in his demonstration of his ways of looking
Mr. Prodmore literally expanded--“is that it’s our house. The
whole thing is mortgaged, as it stands, for every penny of its value;
and I’m in the pleasant position--do you follow me?” he trumpeted.
Cora jumped. “Of holding the mortgages?”
He caught her with a smile of approval and indeed of surprise. “You
keep up with me better than I hoped. I hold every scrap of paper, and
it’s a precious collection.”
She smothered, perceptibly, a vague female sigh, glancing over the
place more attentively than she had yet done. “Do you mean that you
can come down on him?”
“I don’t need to ‘come,’ my dear--I am ‘down.’ This
is down!”--and the iron point of Mr. Prodmore’s stick fairly
struck, as he rapped it, a spark from the cold pavement. “I came many
weeks ago--commercially speaking--and haven’t since budged from the
place.”
The girl moved a little about the hall, then turned with a spasm of
courage. “Are you going to be very hard?”
If she read the eyes with which he met her she found in them, in spite
of a certain accompanying show of pleasantry, her answer. “Hard with
you?”
“No--that doesn’t matter. Hard with the Captain.”
Mr. Prodmore thought an instant. “‘Hard’ is a stupid, shuffling
term. What do you mean by it?”
“Well, I don’t understand business,” Cora said; “but I think I
understand you, papa, enough to gather that you’ve got, as usual,
a striking advantage.”
“As usual, I have scored; but my advantage won’t be striking
perhaps till I have sent the blow home. What I appeal to you, as a
father, at present to do”--he continued broadly to demonstrate--“is
to nerve my arm. I look to you to see me through.”
“Through what, then?”
“Through this most important transaction. Through the speculation
of which you’ve been the barely dissimulated subject. I’ve brought
you here to receive an impression, and I’ve brought you, even more,
to make one.”
The girl turned honestly flat. “But on whom?”
“On me, to begin with--by not being a fool. And then, Miss, on
him.”
Erect, but as if paralysed, she had the air of facing the worst. “On
Captain Yule?”
“By bringing him to the point.”
“But, father,” she asked in evident anguish--“to what point?”
“The point where a gentleman has to.”
Miss Prodmore faltered. “Go down on his knees?”
Her father considered. “No--they don’t do that now.”
“What do they do?”
Mr. Prodmore carried his eyes with a certain sustained majesty to a
remote point. “He will know himself.”
“Oh, no, indeed, he won’t,” the girl cried; “they don’t
ever!”
“Then the sooner they learn--whoever teaches ’em!--the better: the
better I mean in particular,” Mr. Prodmore added with an intention
discernibly vicious, “for the master of this house. I’ll guarantee
that he shall understand that,” he concluded, “for I shall do my
part.”
She looked at him as if his part were really to be hated. “But how on
earth, sir, can I ever do mine? To begin with, you know, I’ve never
even seen him.”
Mr. Prodmore took out his watch; then, having consulted it, put it back
with a gesture that seemed to dispose at the same time and in the same
manner of the objection. “You’ll see him now--from one moment to
the other. He’s remarkably handsome, remarkably young, remarkably
ambitious, and remarkably clever. He has one of the best and oldest
names in this part of the country--a name that, far and wide here,
one could do so much with that I’m simply indignant to see him do
so little. I propose, my dear, to do with it all he hasn’t, and I
further propose, to that end, first to get hold of it. It’s you, Miss
Prodmore, who shall take it out of the fire.”
“The fire?”--he had terrible figures.
“Out of the mud, if you prefer. You must pick it up, do you see? My
plan is, in short,” Mr. Prodmore pursued, “that when we’ve
brushed it off and rubbed it down a bit, blown away the dust and
touched up the rust, my daughter shall gracefully bear it.”
She could only oppose, now, a stiff, thick transparency that yielded a
view of the course in her own veins, after all, however, mingled with a
feebler fluid, of the passionate blood of the Prodmores. “And pray is
it also Captain Yule’s plan?”
Her father’s face warned her off the ground of irony, but he replied
without violence. “His plans have not yet quite matured. But nothing
is more natural,” he added with an ominous smile, “than that
they shall do so on the sunny south wall of Miss Prodmore’s best
manner.”
Miss Prodmore’s spirit was visibly rising, and a note that might
have meant warning for warning sounded in the laugh produced by
this sally. “You speak of them, papa, as if they were sour little
plums! You exaggerate, I think, the warmth of Miss Prodmore’s
nature. It has always been thought remarkably cold.”
“Then you’ll be so good, my dear, as to confound--it mightn’t be
amiss even a little to scandalise--that opinion. I’ve spent twenty
years in giving you what your poor mother used to call advantages,
and they’ve cost me hundreds and hundreds of pounds. It’s now time
that, both as a parent and as a man of business, I should get my money
back. I couldn’t help your temper,” Mr. Prodmore conceded, “nor
your taste, nor even your unfortunate resemblance to the estimable,
but far from ornamental, woman who brought you forth; but I paid out
a small fortune that you should have, damn you, don’t you know? a
good manner. You never show it to me, certainly; but do you mean to
tell me that, at this time of day--for other persons--you haven’t
got one?”
This pulled our young lady perceptibly up; there was a directness in
the argument that was like the ache of old pinches. “If you mean by
‘other persons’ persons who are particularly civil--well, Captain
Yule may not see his way to be one of them. He may not think--don’t
you see?--that I’ve a good manner.”
“Do your duty, Miss, and never mind what he thinks!” Her father’s
conception of her duty momentarily sharpened. “Don’t look at him
like a sick turkey, and he’ll be sure to think right.”
The colour that sprang into Cora’s face at this rude comparison
was such, unfortunately, as perhaps a little to justify it. Yet
she retained, in spite of her emotion, some remnant of presence of
mind. “I remember your saying once, some time ago, that that was just
what he would be sure not to do: I mean when he began to go in for
his dreadful ideas----”
Mr. Prodmore took her boldly up. “About the ‘radical programme,’
the ‘social revolution,’ the spoliation of everyone, and the
destruction of everything? Why, you stupid thing, I’ve worked round
to a complete agreement with him. The taking from those who have by
those who haven’t----”
“Well?” said the girl, with some impatience, as he sought the right
way of expressing his notion.
“What is it but to receive, from consenting hands, the principal
treasure of the rich? If I’m rich, my daughter is my largest
property, and I freely make her over. I shall, in other words, forgive
my young friend his low opinions if he renounces them for you.”
Cora, at this, started as with a glimpse of delight. “He won’t
renounce them! He shan’t!”
Her father appeared still to enjoy the ingenious way he had put it,
so that he had good humour to spare. “If you suggest that you’re
in political sympathy with him, you mean then that you’ll take him as
he is?”
“I won’t take him at all!” she protested with her head very high;
but she had no sooner uttered the words than the sound of the approach
of wheels caused her dignity to drop. “A fly?--it must be he!”
She turned right and left, for a retreat or an escape, but her father
had already caught her by the wrist. “Surely,” she pitifully
panted, “you don’t want me to bounce on him thus?”
Mr. Prodmore, as he held her, estimated the effect. “Your frock
won’t do--with what it cost me?”
“It’s not my frock, papa,--it’s his thinking I’ve come here for
him to see me!”
He let her go and, as she moved away, had another look for the social
value of the view of her stout back. It appeared to determine him, for,
with a touch of mercy, he passed his word. “He doesn’t think it,
and he shan’t know it.”
The girl had made for the door of the morning-room, before reaching
which she flirted breathlessly round. “But he knows you want me to
hook him!”
Mr. Prodmore was already in the parliamentary attitude the occasion
had suggested to him for the reception of his visitor. “The way
to ‘hook’ him will be not to be hopelessly vulgar. He doesn’t
know that you know anything.” The house-bell clinked, and he waved
his companion away. “Await us there with tea, and mind you toe the
mark!”
Chivers, at this moment, summoned by the bell, reappeared in the
morning-room doorway, and Cora’s dismay brushed him as he sidled past
her and off into the passage to the front. Then, from the threshold of
her refuge, she launched a last appeal. “Don’t kill me, father:
give me time!” With which she dashed into the room, closing the door
with a bang.
II
Mr. Prodmore, in Chivers’s absence, remained staring as if
at a sudden image of something rather fine. His child had left
with him the sense of a quick irradiation, and he failed to see
why, at the worst, such lightnings as she was thus able to dart
shouldn’t strike somewhere. If he had spoken to her of her best
manner perhaps that was her best manner. He heard steps and voices,
however, and immediately invited to his aid his own, which was simply
magnificent. Chivers, returning, announced solemnly “Captain Yule!”
and ushered in a tall young man in a darkish tweed suit and a red
necktie, attached in a sailor’s knot, who, as he entered, removed
a soft brown hat. Mr. Prodmore, at this, immediately saluted him by
uncovering. “Delighted at last to see you here!”
It was the young man who first, in his comparative simplicity,
put out a hand. “If I’ve not come before, Mr. Prodmore, it
was--very frankly speaking--from the dread of seeing you!”
His speech contradicted, to some extent, his gesture, but Clement
Yule’s was an aspect in which contradictions were rather remarkably
at home. Erect and slender, but as strong as he was straight, he was
set up, as the phrase is, like a soldier, and yet finished, in certain
details--matters of expression and suggestion only indeed--like a man
in whom sensibility had been recklessly cultivated. He was hard and
fine, just as he was sharp and gentle, just as he was frank and shy,
just as he was serious and young, just as he looked, though you could
never have imitated it, distinctly “kept up” and yet considerably
reduced. His features were thoroughly regular, but his complete
shaving might have been designed to show that they were, after all,
not absurd. The face Mr. Prodmore offered him fairly glowed, on this
new showing, with instant pride of possession, and there was that in
Captain Yule’s whole air which justified such a sentiment without
consciously rewarding it.
“Ah, surely,” said the elder man, “my presence is not without
a motive!”
“It’s just the motive,” Captain Yule returned, “that makes me
wince at it! Certainly I’ve no illusions,” he added, “about the
ground of our meeting. Your thorough knowledge of what you’re about
has placed me at your mercy--you hold me in the hollow of your hand.”
It was vivid in every inch that Mr. Prodmore’s was a nature to expand
in the warmth, or even in the chill, of any tribute to his financial
subtlety. “Well, I won’t, on my side, deny that when, in general,
I go in deep I don’t go in for nothing. I make it pay double!” he
smiled.
“You make it pay so well--‘double’ surely doesn’t do you
justice!--that, if I’ve understood you, you can do quite as you like
with this preposterous place. Haven’t you brought me down exactly
that I may see you do it?”
“I’ve certainly brought you down that you may open your eyes!”
This, apparently, however, was not what Mr. Prodmore himself had
arrived to do with his own. These fine points of expression literally
contracted with intensity. “Of course, you know, you can always clear
the property. You can pay off the mortgages.”
Captain Yule, by this time, had, as he had not done at first, looked
up and down, round about and well over the scene, taking in, though
at a mere glance, it might have seemed, more particularly, the row,
high up, of strenuous ancestors. But Mr. Prodmore’s last words rang
none the less on his ear, and he met them with mild amusement. “Pay
off----? What can I pay off with?”
“You can always raise money.”
“What can I raise it on?”
Mr. Prodmore looked massively gay. “On your great political
future.”
“Oh, I’ve not taken--for the short run at least--the lucrative
line,” the young man said, “and I know what you think of that.”
Mr. Prodmore’s blandness confessed, by its instant increase, to
this impeachment. There was always the glory of intimacy in Yule’s
knowing what he thought. “I hold that you keep, in public, very
dangerous company; but I also hold that you’re extravagant mainly
because you’ve nothing at stake. A man has the right opinions,” he
developed with pleasant confidence, “as soon as he has something to
lose by having the wrong. Haven’t I already hinted to you how to set
your political house in order? You drop into the lower regions because
you keep the best rooms empty. You’re a firebrand, in other words my
dear Captain, simply because you’re a bachelor. That’s one of the
early complaints we all pass through, but it’s soon over, and the
treatment for it quite simple. I have your remedy.”
The young man’s eyes, wandering again about the house, might have
been those of an auditor of the fiddling before the rise of the
curtain. “A remedy worse than the disease?”
“There’s nothing worse, that I’ve ever heard of,” Mr. Prodmore
sharply replied, “than your particular fix. Least of all a heap of
gold----”
“A heap of gold?” His visitor idly settled, as if the curtain were
going up.
Mr. Prodmore raised it bravely. “In the lap of a fine fresh
lass! Give pledges to fortune, as somebody says--then we’ll
talk. You want money--that’s what you want. Well, marry it!”
Clement Yule, for a little, never stirred, save that his eyes yet again
strayed vaguely. At last they stopped with a smile. “Of course I
could do that in a moment!”
“It’s even just my own danger from you,” his companion returned.
“I perfectly recognise that any woman would now jump----”
“I don’t like jumping women,” Captain Yule threw in; “but that
perhaps is a detail. It’s more to the point that I’ve yet to see
the woman whom, by an advance of my own----”
“You’d care to keep in the really attractive position----?”
“Which can never, of course, be anything”--Yule took his friend up
again--“but that of waiting quietly.”
“Never, never anything!” Mr. Prodmore, most assentingly, banished
all other thought. “But I haven’t asked you, you know, to make an
advance.”
“You’ve only asked me to receive one?”
Mr. Prodmore waited a little. “Well, I’ve asked you--I asked you a
month ago--to think it all over.”
“I have thought it all over,” Clement Yule said; “and the
strange sequel seems to be that my eyes have got accustomed to my
darkness. I seem to make out, in the gloom of my meditations, that, at
the worst, I can let the whole thing slide.”
“The property?”--Mr. Prodmore jerked back as if it were about to
start.
“Isn’t it the property,” his visitor inquired, “that positively
throws me up? If I can afford neither to live on it nor to disencumber
it, I can at least let it save its own bacon and pay its own debts. I
can say to you simply: ‘Take it, my dear sir, and the devil take
you!’”
Mr. Prodmore gave a quick, strained smile. “You wouldn’t be so
shockingly rude!”
“Why not--if I’m a firebrand and a keeper of low company and a
general nuisance? Sacrifice for sacrifice, that might very well be the
least!”
This was put with such emphasis that Mr. Prodmore was for a moment
arrested. He could stop very short, however, and yet talk as still
going. “How do you know, if you haven’t compared them? It’s just
to make the comparison--in all the proper circumstances--that you’re
here at this hour.” He took, with a large, though vague, exhibitory
gesture, a few turns about. “Now that you stretch yourself--for an
hour’s relaxation and rocked, as it were, by my friendly hand--in the
ancient cradle of your race, can you seriously entertain the idea of
parting with such a venerable family relic?”
It was evident that, as he decorously embraced the scene, the young
man, in spite of this dissuasive tone, was entertaining ideas. It
might have appeared at the moment to a spectator in whom fancy was
at all alert that the place, becoming in a manner conscious of the
question, felt itself on its honour, and that its honour could make
no compromise. It met Clement Yule with no grimace of invitation,
with no attenuation of its rich old sadness. It was as if the two
hard spirits, the grim genius loci and the quick modern conscience,
stood an instant confronted. “The cradle of my race bears, for me,
Mr. Prodmore, a striking resemblance to its tomb.” The sigh that
dropped from him, however, was not quite void of tenderness. It
might, for that matter, have been a long, sad creak, portending
collapse, of some immemorial support of the Yules. “Heavens, how
melancholy----!”
Mr. Prodmore, somewhat ambiguously, took up the sound. “Melancholy?”--he
just balanced. That well might be, even a little should
be--yet agreement might depreciate.
“Musty, mouldy;” then with a poke of his stick at a gap in the
stuff with which an old chair was covered, “mangy!” Captain Yule
responded. “Is this the character throughout?”
Mr. Prodmore fixed a minute the tell-tale tatter. “You must judge
for yourself--you must go over the house.” He hesitated again; then
his indecision vanished--the right line was clear. “It does look a
bit run down, but I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll do it up for
you--neatly: I’ll throw that in!”
His young friend turned on him an eye that, though markedly enlivened
by his offer, was somehow only the more inscrutable. “Will you put in
the electric light?”
Mr. Prodmore’s own twinkle--at this touch of a spring he had not
expected to work--was, on the other hand, temporarily veiled. “Well,
if you’ll meet me half-way! We’re dealing here”--he backed up his
gravity--“with fancy-values. Don’t you feel,” he appealed, “as
you take it all in, a kind of a something-or-other down your back?”
Clement Yule gazed awhile at one of the pompous quarterings in the
faded old glass that, in tones as of late autumn, crowned with armorial
figures the top of the great hall-window; then with abruptness he
turned away. “Perhaps I don’t take it all in; but what I do feel
is--since you mention it--a sort of stiffening of the spine! The whole
thing is too queer--too cold--too cruel.”
“Cruel?”--Mr. Prodmore’s demur was virtuous.
“Like the face of some stuck-up distant relation who won’t speak
first. I see in the stare of the old dragon, I taste in his very
breath, all the helpless mortality he has tucked away!”
“Lord, sir--you have fancies!” Mr. Prodmore was almost
scandalised.
But the young man’s fancies only multiplied as he moved, not at
all critical, but altogether nervous, from object to object. “I
don’t know what’s the matter--but there is more here than meets
the eye.” He tried as for his amusement or his relief to figure it
out. “I miss the old presences. I feel the old absences. I hear the
old voices. I see the old ghosts.”
This last was a profession that offered some common ground. “The
old ghosts, Captain Yule,” his companion promptly replied, “are
worth so much a dozen, and with no reduction, I must remind you--with
the price indeed rather raised--for the quantity taken!” Feeling
then apparently that he had cleared the air a little by this sally,
Mr. Prodmore proceeded to pat his interlocutor on a back that he by no
means wished to cause to be put to the wall. “Look about you, at any
rate, a little more.” He crossed with his toes well out the line that
divides encouragement from patronage. “Do make yourself at home.”
“Thank you very much, Mr. Prodmore. May I light a cigarette?” his
visitor asked.
“In your own house, Captain?”
“That’s just the question: it seems so much less my own house
than before I had come into it!” The Captain offered Mr. Prodmore a
cigarette which that gentleman, also taking a light from him, accepted;
then he lit his own and began to smoke. “As I understand you,” he
went on, “you lump your two conditions? I mean I must accept both
or neither?”
Mr. Prodmore threw back his shoulders with a high recognition of the
long stride represented by this question. “You will accept both,
for, by doing so, you’ll clear the property at a stroke. The way
I put it is--see?--that if you’ll stand for Gossage, you’ll get
returned for Gossage.”
“And if I get returned for Gossage, I shall marry your daughter.
Accordingly,” the young man pursued, “if I marry your daughter----”
“I’ll burn up, before your eyes,” said this young lady’s
proprietor, “every scratch of your pen. It will be a bonfire of
signatures. There won’t be a penny to pay--there’ll only be a
position to take. You’ll take it with peculiar grace.”
“Peculiar, Mr. Prodmore--very!”
The young man had assented more than he desired, but he was not
deterred by it from completing the picture. “You’ll settle down
here in comfort and honour.”
Clement Yule took several steps; the effect of his host was the reverse
of soothing; yet the latter watched his irritation as if it were the
working of a charm. “Are you very sure of the ‘honour’ if I turn
my political coat?”
“You’ll only be turning it back again to the way it was always
worn. Gossage will receive you with open arms and press you to a
heaving Tory bosom. That bosom”--Mr. Prodmore followed himself
up--“has never heaved but to sound Conservative principles. The
cradle, as I’ve called it,--or at least the rich, warm coverlet,--of
your race, Gossage was the political property, so to speak, of
generations of your family. Stand therefore in the good old interest
and you’ll stand like a lion.”
“I’m afraid you mean,” Captain Yule laughed, “that I must first
roar like one.”
“Oh, I’ll do the roaring!”--and Mr. Prodmore shook his
mane. “Leave that to me.”
“Then why the deuce don’t you stand yourself?”
Mr. Prodmore knew so familiarly why! “Because I’m not a
remarkably handsome young man with the grand old home and the right
old name. Because I’m a different sort of matter altogether. But if I
haven’t these advantages,” he went on, “you’ll do justice to my
natural desire that my daughter at least shall have them.”
Clement Yule watched himself smoke a minute. “Doing justice to
natural desires is just what, of late, I’ve tried to make a study
of. But I confess I don’t quite grasp the deep attraction you appear
to discover in so large a surrender of your interests.”
“My surrenders are my own affair,” Mr. Prodmore rang out, “and as
for my interests, as I never, on principle, give anything for nothing,
I dare say I may be trusted to know them when I see them. You come
high--I don’t for a moment deny it; but when I look at you, in
this pleasant, intimate way, my dear boy--if you’ll allow me so to
describe things--I recognise one of those cases, unmistakeable when
really met, in which one must put down one’s money. There’s not
an article in the whole shop, if you don’t mind the comparison,
that strikes me as better value. I intend you shall be, Captain,”
Mr. Prodmore wound up in a frank, bold burst, “the true comfort of
my life!”
The young man was as hushed for a little as if an organ-tone were
still in the air. “May I inquire,” he at last returned, “if Miss
Prodmore’s ideas of comfort are as well defined--and in her case, I
may add, as touchingly modest--as her father’s? Is she a responsible
party of this ingenious arrangement?”
Mr. Prodmore rendered homage--his appreciation was marked--to the
elevated character of his young friend’s scruple. “Miss Prodmore,
Captain Yule, may be perhaps best described as a large smooth sheet
of blank, though gilt-edged, paper. No image of any tie but the true
and perfect filial has yet, I can answer for it, formed itself on the
considerable expanse. But for that image to be projected----”
“I’ve only, in person, to appear?” Yule asked with an embarrassment
that he tried to laugh off.
“And, naturally, in person,” Mr. Prodmore intelligently assented,
“do yourself, as well as the young lady, justice. Do you remember
what you said when I first, in London, laid the matter before you?”
Clement Yule did remember, but his amusement increased. “I think
I said it struck me I should first take a look at--what do you call
it?--the corpus delicti.”
“You should first see for yourself what you had really come into? I
was not only eager for that,” said Mr. Prodmore, “but I’m willing
to go further: I’m quite ready to hear you say that you think you
should also first see the young lady.”
Captain Yule continued to laugh. “There is something in that then,
since you mention it!”
“I think you’ll find that there’s everything.” Mr. Prodmore
again looked at his watch. “Which will you take first?”
“First?”
“The young lady or the house?”
His companion, at this, unmistakeably started. “Do you mean your
daughter’s here?”
Mr. Prodmore glowed with consciousness. “In the morning-room.”
“Waiting for me?”
The tone showed a consternation that Mr. Prodmore’s was alert to
soothe. “Ah, as long, you know, as you like!”
Yule’s alarm, however, was not assuaged; it appeared to grow as he
stared, much discomposed, yet sharply thinking, at the door to which
his friend had pointed. “Oh, longer than this, please!” Then as
he turned away: “Do you mean she knows----?”
“That she’s here on view?” Mr. Prodmore hung fire a moment, but
was equal to the occasion. “She knows nothing whatever. She’s as
unconscious as the rose on its stem!”
His companion was visibly relieved. “That’s right--let her remain
so! I’ll first take the house,” said Clement Yule.
“Shall I go round with you?” Mr. Prodmore asked.
The young man’s reflection was brief. “Thank you. I’d rather, on
the whole, go round alone.”
The old servant who had admitted the gentlemen came back at this crisis
from the morning-room, looking from under a bent brow and with much
limpid earnestness from one of them to the other. The one he first
addressed had evidently, though quite unaware of it, inspired him with
a sympathy from which he now took a hint. “There’s tea on, sir!”
he persuasively jerked as he passed the younger man.
The elder answered. “Then I’ll join my daughter.” He gained
the morning-room door, whence he repeated with an appropriate
gesture--that of offering proudly, with light, firm fingers, a flower
of his own celebrated raising--his happy formula of Miss Prodmore’s
state. “The rose on its stem!” Scattering petals, diffusing
fragrance, he thus passed out.
Chivers, meanwhile, had rather pointlessly settled once more in its
place some small object that had not strayed; to whom Clement Yule,
absently watching him, abruptly broke out. “I say, my friend, what
colour is the rose?”
The old man looked up with a dimness that presently glimmered. “The
rose, sir?” He turned to the open door and the shining day. “Rather
a brilliant----”
“A brilliant----?” Yule was interested.
“Kind of old-fashioned red.” Chivers smiled with the pride of
being thus able to testify, but the next instant his smile went
out. “It’s the only one left--on the old west wall.”
His visitor’s mirth, at this, quickly enough revived. “My dear
fellow, I’m not alluding to the sole ornament of the garden, but to
the young lady at present in the morning-room. Do you happen to have
noticed if she’s pretty?”
Chivers stood queerly rueful. “Laws, sir--it’s a matter I mostly
notice; but isn’t it, at the same time, sir, a matter--like--of
taste?”
“Pre-eminently. That’s just why I appeal with such confidence to
yours.”
The old man acknowledged with a flush of real embarrassment a
responsibility he had so little invited. “Well, sir,--mine was always
a sort of fancy for something more merry-like.”
“She isn’t merry-like then, poor Miss Prodmore?” Captain Yule’s
attention, however, dropped before the answer came, and he turned off
the subject with an “Ah, if you come to that, neither am I! But
it doesn’t signify,” he went on. “What are you?” he more
sociably demanded.
Chivers clearly had to think a bit. “Well, sir, I’m not quite
that. Whatever has there been to make me, sir?” he asked in dim
extenuation.
“How in the world do I know? I mean to whom do you belong?”
Chivers seemed to scan impartially the whole field. “If you could
just only tell me, sir! I quite seem to waste away--for someone to
take an order of.”
Clement Yule, by this time, had become aware he was amusing. “Who
pays your wages?”
“No one at all, sir,” said the old man very simply.
His friend, fumbling an instant in a waistcoat pocket, produced
something that his hand, in obedience to a little peremptory gesture
and by a trick of which he had unlearned, through scant custom, the
neatness, though the propriety was instinctive, placed itself in a shy
practical relation to. “Then there’s a sovereign. And I haven’t
many!” the young man, turning away resignedly, threw after it.
Chivers, for an instant, intensely studied him. “Ah, then,
shouldn’t it stay in the family?”
Clement Yule wheeled round, first struck, then, at the sight of the
figure made by his companion in this offer, visibly touched. “I think
it does, old boy.”
Chivers kept his eyes on him now. “I’ve served your house, sir.”
“How long?”
“All my life.”
So, for a time, they faced each other, and something in Chivers made
Yule at last speak. “Then I won’t give you up!”
“Indeed, sir, I hope you won’t give up anything.”
The Captain took up his hat. “It remains to be seen.” He looked
over the place again; his eyes wandered to the open door. “Is that
the garden?”
“It was!”--and the old man’s sigh was like the creak of the
wheel of time. “Shall I show you how it used to be?”
“It’s just as it is, alas, that I happen to require it!”
Captain Yule reached the door and stood looking beyond. “Don’t
come,” he then said; “I want to think.” With which he walked out.
Chivers, left alone, appeared to wonder at it, and his wonder,
like that of most old people, lay near his lips. “What does he
want, poor dear, to think about?” This speculation, however, was
immediately checked by a high, clear voice that preceded the appearance
on the stairs, before she had reached the middlemost landing, of the
wonderful figure of a lady, a lady who, with the almost trumpeted
cheer of her peremptory but friendly call--“Housekeeper, Butler, old
Family Servant!”--fairly waked the sleeping echoes. Chivers gazed up
at her in quick remembrance, half dismayed, half dazzled, of a duty
neglected. She appeared now; she shone at him out of the upper dusk;
reaching the middle, she had begun to descend, with beautiful laughter
and rustling garments; and though she was alone she gave him the sense
of coming in a crowd and with music. “Oh, I should have told him of
her!”
III
She was indeed an apparition, a presence requiring announcement and
explanation just in the degree in which it seemed to show itself in a
relation quite of its own to all social preliminaries. It evidently
either assumed them to be already over or wished to forestall them
altogether; what was clear at any rate was that it allowed them scant
existence. She was young, tall, radiant, lovely, and dressed in a
manner determined at once, obviously, by the fact and by the humour
of her journey--it might have proclaimed her so a pilgrim or so set
her up as a priestess. Most journeys, for this lady, at all events,
were clearly a brush of Paris. “Did you think I had got snapped down
in an old box like that poor girl--what’s her name? the one who was
poking round too--in the celebrated poem? You dear, delightful man, why
didn’t you tell me?”
“Tell you, mum----?”
“Well, that you’re so perfectly--perfect! You’re ever so much
better than anyone has ever said. Why, in the name of common sense, has
nobody ever said anything? You’re everything in the world you ought
to be, and not the shade of a shade of anything you oughtn’t!”
It was a higher character to be turned out with than poor Chivers had
ever dreamed. “Well, mum, I try!” he gaped.
“Oh, no, you don’t--that’s just your charm! I try,” cried his
friend, “but you do nothing: here you simply are--you can’t help
it!”
He stood overwhelmed. “Me, mum?”
She took him in at the eyes--she could take everything at once. “Yes,
you too, you positive old picture! I’ve seen the old masters--but
you’re the old master!”
“The master--I?” He fairly fell back.
“‘The good and faithful servant’--Rembrandt van Rhyn: with
three stars. That’s what you are!” Nothing would have been more
droll to a spectator than her manner of meeting his humbleness, or more
charming indeed than the practical sweetness of her want of imagination
of it. “The house is a vision of beauty, and you’re simply worthy
of the house. I can’t say more for you!”
“I find it a bit of a strain, mum,” Chivers candidly replied, “to
keep up--fairly to call it--with what you do say.”
“That’s just what everyone finds it!”--she broke into the
happiest laugh. “Yet I haven’t come here to suffer in silence, you
know--to suffer, I mean, from envy and despair.” She was in constant
movement, from side to side, observing, comparing, returning, taking
notes while she gossiped and gossiping, too, for remembrance. The
intention of remembrance even had in it, however, some prevision of
failure or some alloy of irritation. “You’re so fatally right and
so deadly complete, all the same, that I can really scarcely bear it:
with every fascinating feature that I had already heard of and thought
I was prepared for, and ever so many others that, strange to say,
I hadn’t and wasn’t, and that you just spring right at me like
a series of things going off. What do you call it,” she asked--“a
royal salute, a hundred guns?”
Her enthusiasm had a bewildering form, but it had by this time warmed
the air, and the old man rubbed his hands as over a fire to which the
bellows had been applied. “I saw as soon as you arrived, mum, that
you were looking for more things than ever I heard tell of!”
“Oh, I had got you by heart,” she returned, “from books and
drawings and photos; I had you in my pocket when I came: so, you see,
as soon as you were so good as to give me my head and let me loose,
I knew my way about. It’s all here, every inch of it,” she
competently continued, “and now at last I can do what I want!”
A light of consternation, at this, just glimmered in Chivers’s
face. “And pray, mum, what might that be?”
“Why, take you right back with me--to Missoura Top.”
This answer seemed to fix his bewilderment, but he was there for the
general convenience.
“Do I understand you, mum, that you require to take me?”
Her particular convenience, on the spot, embraced him, so new and
delightful a sense had he suddenly read into her words. “Do you
mean to say you’d come--as the old Family Servant? Then do,
you nice real thing: it’s just what I’m dying for--an old Family
Servant! You’re somebody’s else, yes--but everything, over here,
is somebody’s else, and I want, too, a first-rate second-hand one,
all ready made, as you are, but not too much done up. You’re the
best I’ve seen yet, and I wish I could have you packed--put up in
paper and bran--as I shall have my old pot there.” She whisked about,
remembering, recovering, eager: “Don’t let me forget my precious
pot!” Excited, with quick transitions, she quite sociably appealed
to her companion, who shuffled sympathetically to where, out of harm,
the object had been placed on a table. “Don’t you just love old
crockery? That’s awfully sweet old Chelsea.”
He took up the piece with tenderness, though, in his general agitation,
not perhaps with all the caution with which, for daily service, he
handled ancient frailties. He at any rate turned on this fresh subject
an interested, puzzled eye. “Where is it I’ve known this very
bit--though not to say, as you do, by name?” Suddenly it came to
him. “In the pew-opener’s front parlour!”
“No,” his interlocutress cried, “in the pew-opener’s best
bedroom: on the old chest of drawers, you know--with those ducks of
brass handles. I’ve got the handles too--I mean the whole thing;
and the brass fender and fire-irons, and the chair her grandmother died
in. Not in the fly,” she added--“it was such a bore that they have
to be sent.”
Chivers, with the pot still in his hands, fairly rocked in the high
wind of so much confidence and such great transactions. He had nothing
for these, however, but approval. “You did right to take this out,
mum, when the fly went to the stables. Them flymen do be cruel rash
with anything that’s delicate.” Of the delicacy of the vessel
it now rested with him to deposit safely again he was by this time
so appreciatively aware that in returning with it to its safe niche
he stumbled into some obscure trap literally laid for him by his
nervousness. It was the matter of a few seconds, of a false movement,
a knock of the elbow, a gasp, a shriek, a complete little crash. There
was the pot on the pavement, in several pieces, and the clumsy
cup-bearer blue with fear. “Mercy on us, mum,--I’ve brought shame
on my old grey hairs!”
The little shriek of his companion had smothered itself in the
utterance, and the next minute, with the ruin between them, they
were contrastedly face to face. The charming woman, who had already
found more voices in the air than anyone had found before, could, in
the happy play of this power, find a poetry in her accident. “Oh,
but the way you take it!” she laughed--“you’re too quaint
to live!” She looked at him as if he alone had suffered--as if his
suffering indeed positively added to his charm. “The way you said
that now--it’s just the very ‘type’! That’s all I want of
you now--to be the very type. It’s what you are, you poor dear
thing--for you can’t help it; and it’s what everything and
everyone else is, over here; so that you had just better all make
up your minds to it and not try to shirk it. There was a type in the
train with me--the ‘awfully nice girl’ of all the English novels,
the ‘simple maiden in her flower’ of--who is it?--your great
poet. She couldn’t help it either--in fact I wouldn’t have let
her!” With this, while Chivers picked up his fragments, his lady had
a happy recall. His face, as he stood there with the shapeless elements
of his humiliation fairly rattling again in his hands, was a reflection
of her extraordinary manner of enlarging the subject, or rather, more
beneficently perhaps, the space that contained it. “By the way, the
girl was coming right here. Has she come?”
Chivers crept solemnly away, as if to bury his dead, which he
consigned, with dumb rites, to a situation of honourable publicity;
then, as he came back, he replied without elation: “Miss Prodmore is
here, mum. She’s having her tea.”
This, for his friend, was a confirmatory touch to be fitted with
eagerness into the picture. “Yes, that’s exactly it--they’re
always having their tea!”
“With Mr. Prodmore--in the morning-room,” the old man supplemented.
“Captain Yule’s in the garden.”
“Captain Yule?”
“The new master. He’s also just arrived.”
The wonderful lady gave an immediate “Oh!” to the effect of which
her silence for another moment seemed to add. “She didn’t tell me
about him.”
“Well, mum,” said Chivers, “it do be a strange thing to tell. He
had never--like, mum--so much as seen the place.”
“Before today--his very own?” This too, for the visitor, was an
impression among impressions, and, like most of her others, it ended
after an instant as a laugh. “Well, I hope he likes it!”
“I haven’t seen many, mum,” Chivers boldly declared, “that like
it as much as you.”
She made with her handsome head a motion that appeared to signify
still deeper things than he had caught. Her beautiful wondering eyes
played high and low, like the flight of an imprisoned swallow, then, as
she sank upon a seat, dropped at last as if the creature were bruised
with its limits. “I should like it still better if it were my very
own!”
“Well, mum,” Chivers sighed, “if it wasn’t against my duty I
could wish indeed it were! But the Captain, mum,” he conscientiously
added, “is the lawful heir.”
It was a wonder what she found in whatever he said; he touched with
every word the spring of her friendly joy. “That’s another of your
lovely old things--I adore your lawful heirs!” She appeared to have,
about everything that came up, a general lucid vision that almost
glorified the particular case. “He has come to take possession?”
Chivers accepted, for the credit of the house, this sustaining
suggestion. “He’s a-taking of it now.”
This evoked, for his companion, an instantaneous show. “What
does he do and how does he do it? Can’t I see?” She was all
impatience, but she dropped to disappointment as her guide looked
blank. “There’s no grand fuss----?”
“I scarce think him, mum,” Chivers with propriety hastened to
respond, “the gentleman to make any about anything.”
She had to resign herself, but she smiled as she thought. “Well,
perhaps I like them better when they don’t!” She had clearly a
great range of taste, and it all came out in the wistfulness with
which, before the notice apparently served on her, she prepared
to make way. “I also”--she lingered and sighed--“have taken
possession!”
Poor Chivers really rose to her. “It was you, mum,” he smiled,
“took it first!”
She sadly shook her head. “Ah, but for a poor little hour! He’s
for life.”
The old man gave up, after a little, with equal depression, the
pretence of dealing with such realities. “For mine, mum, I do at
least hope.”
She made again the circuit of the great place, picking up without
interest the jacket she had on her previous entrance laid down. “I
shall think of you, you know, here together.” She vaguely looked
about her as for anything else to take; then abruptly, with her eyes
again on Chivers: “Do you suppose he’ll be kind to you?”
His hand, in his trousers-pocket, seemed to turn the matter over. “He
has already been, mum.”
“Then be sure to be so to him!” she replied with some
emphasis. The house-bell sounded as she spoke, giving her quickly
another thought. “Is that his bell?”
Chivers was hardly less struck. “I must see whose!”--and hurrying,
on this, to the front, he presently again vanished.
His companion, left alone, stood a minute with an air in which happy
possession was oddly and charmingly mingled with desperate surrender;
so much as to have left you in doubt if the next of her lively motions
were curiosity or disgust. Impressed, in her divided state, with a
small framed plaque of enamel, she impulsively detached it from the
wall and examined it with hungry tenderness. Her hovering thought was
so vivid that you might almost have traced it in sound. “Why, bless
me if it isn’t Limoges! I wish awfully I were a bad woman: then,
I do devoutly hope, I’d just quietly take it!” It testified to the
force of this temptation that on hearing a sound behind her she started
like a guilty thing; recovering herself, however, and--just, of course,
not to appear at fault--keeping the object familiarly in her hand as
she jumped to a recognition of the gentleman who, coming in from the
garden, had stopped in the open doorway. She gathered indeed from his
being there a positive advantage, the full confidence of which was
already in her charming tone. “Oh, Captain Yule, I’m delighted to
meet you! It’s such a comfort to ask you if I may!”
His surprise kept him an instant dumb, but the effort not too
closely to betray it appeared in his persuasive inflection. “If you
‘may,’ madam----?”
“Why, just be here, don’t you know? and poke round!” She
presented such a course as almost vulgarly natural. “Don’t tell
me I can’t now, because I already have: I’ve been upstairs
and downstairs and in my lady’s chamber--I won’t answer for
it even perhaps that I’ve not been in my lord’s! I got round
your lovely servant--if you don’t look out I’ll grab him. If
you don’t look out, you know, I’ll grab everything.” She
gave fair notice and went on with amazing serenity; she gathered
positive gaiety from his frank stupefaction. “That’s what I came
over for--just to lay your country waste. Your house is a wild old
dream; and besides”--she dropped, oddly and quaintly, into real
responsible judgment--“you’ve got some quite good things. Oh,
yes, you have--several: don’t coyly pretend you haven’t!” Her
familiarity took these flying leaps, and she alighted, as her victim
must have phrased it to himself, without turning a hair. “Don’t
you know you have? Just look at that!” She thrust her enamel
before him, but he took it and held it so blankly, with an attention
so absorbed in the mere woman, that at the sight of his manner her
zeal for his interest and her pity for his detachment again flashed
out. “Don’t you know anything? Why, it’s Limoges!”
Clement Yule simply broke into a laugh--though his laugh indeed
was comprehensive. “It seems absurd, but I’m not in the least
acquainted with my house. I’ve never happened to see it.”
She seized his arm. “Then do let me show it to you!”
“I shall be delighted.” His laughter had redoubled in a way that
spoke of his previous tension; yet his tone, as he saw Chivers return
breathless from the front, showed that he had responded sincerely
enough to desire a clear field. “Who in the world’s there?”
The old man was full of it. “A party!”
“A party?”
Chivers confessed to the worst. “Over from Gossage--to see the
house.”
The worst, however, clearly, was quite good enough for their
companion, who embraced the incident with sudden enthusiasm. “Oh,
let me show it!” But before either of the men could reply she had,
addressing herself to Chivers, one of those droll drops that betrayed
the quickness of her wit and the freedom of her fancy. “Dear me, I
forgot--you get the tips! But, you dear old creature,” she went on,
“I’ll get them, too, and I’ll simply make them over to you.”
She again pressed Yule--pressed him into this service. “Perhaps
they’ll be bigger--for me!”
He continued to be highly amused. “I should think they’d
be enormous--for you! But I should like,” he added with more
concentration--“I should like extremely, you know, to go over with
you alone.”
She was held a moment. “Just you and me?”
“Just you and me--as you kindly proposed.”
She stood reminded; but, throwing it off, she had her first
inconsequence. “That must be for after----!”
“Ah, but not too late.” He looked at his watch. “I go back
tonight.”
“Laws, sir!” Chivers irrepressibly groaned.
“You want to keep him?” the stranger asked. Captain Yule turned
away at the question, but her look went after him, and she found
herself, somehow, instantly answered. “Then I’ll help you,” she
said to Chivers; “and the oftener we go over the better.”
Something further, on this, quite immaterial, but quite adequate,
passed, while the young man’s back was turned, between the two
others; in consequence of which Chivers again appealed to his
master. “Shall I show them straight in, sir?”
His master, still detached, replied without looking at him. “By all
means--if there’s money in it!” This was jocose, but there would
have been, for an observer, an increase of hope in the old man’s
departing step. The lady had exerted an influence.
She continued, for that matter, with a start of genial remembrance,
to exert one in his absence. “Oh, and I promised to show it to Miss
Prodmore!” Her conscience, with a kind smile for the young person she
named, put the question to Clement Yule. “Won’t you call her?”
The coldness of his quick response made it practically none.
“‘Call’ her? Dear lady, I don’t know her!”
“You must, then--she’s wonderful.” The face with which he met
this drew from the dear lady a sharper look; but, for the aid of her
good-nature, Cora Prodmore, at the moment she spoke, presented herself
in the doorway of the morning-room. “See? She’s charming!” The
girl, with a glare of recognition, dashed across the open as if under
heavy fire; but heavy fire, alas--the extremity of exposure--was
promptly embodied in her friend’s public embrace. “Miss
Prodmore,” said this terrible friend, “let me present Captain
Yule.” Never had so great a gulf been bridged in so free a
span. “Captain Yule, Miss Prodmore. Miss Prodmore, Captain Yule.”
There was stiffness, the cold mask of terror, in such notice as either
party took of this demonstration, the convenience of which was not
enhanced for the divided pair by the perception that Mr. Prodmore
had now followed his daughter. Cora threw herself confusedly
into it indeed, as with a vain rebound into the open. “Papa,
let me ‘present’ you to Mrs. Gracedew. Mrs. Gracedew, Mr.
Prodmore. Mr. Prodmore, Mrs. Gracedew.”
Mrs. Gracedew, with a free salute and a distinct repetition, took in
Mr. Prodmore as she had taken everything else. “Mr. Prodmore”--oh,
she pronounced him, spared him nothing of himself. “So happy to meet
your daughter’s father. Your daughter’s so perfect a specimen.”
Mr. Prodmore, for the first moment, had simply looked large and at
sea; then, like a practical man and without more question, had quickly
seized the long perch held out to him in this statement. “So perfect
a specimen, yes!”--he seemed to pass it on to his young friend.
Mrs. Gracedew, if she observed his emphasis, drew from it no
deterrence; she only continued to cover Cora with a gaze that kept her
well in the middle. “So fresh, so quaint, so droll!”
It was apparently a result of what had passed in the morning-room that
