aquiline nose.

The driver eyed Ernest sharply and brought the buggy to a standstill.

"Where are you going, boy?" he asked.

"To Lee's Falls."

"Where have you come from?"

"From Emmonsville."

"It is a long walk."

"Yes. Do you think you could give me a lift?"

"Perhaps so. Jump in."

Ernest lost no time in availing himself of the invitation. He was
footsore and weary, and it was with a sensation of relief that he
seated himself beside the driver.

The latter, who had been going at good speed, pulled his horse down to
a walk and showed indications of becoming sociable.

"Where were you going in Lee's Falls?" he asked.

Ernest felt that it would be imprudent to mention that his destination
was the bank, so he answered guardedly, "I am going to see the town. I
may stop over night."

"At the hotel?"

"Yes."

"It is not much of a place to see," said the driver, watching his
companion curiously.

"It is larger than Emmonsville, isn't it?"

"Yes. How long have you been in Emmonsville?"

"Not long."

"Where do you live there?"

"At Mrs. Larkins'."

"Do you go to school?"

"No."

Ernest began to think that his companion was decidedly inquisitive,
and something told him that he would do well to be on his guard. Why
should he ask so many questions of a boy with whom he had no
acquaintance?

Meanwhile the horse was travelling very slowly, and it seemed to
Ernest that he would go over the road quite as fast if he had
continued to walk. However, it was easier riding, and this was a
consideration. He began to think it was his turn to ask questions.

"Are you going all the way to Lee's Falls?" he asked.

"I may go nearly there."

"I am very much obliged to you for giving me a lift. I was quite
tired."

The driver smiled.

"Perhaps I have an object," he said.

Ernest looked an inquiry.

"The pleasure of your company," explained his companion, with a smile.

"Thank you," answered Ernest.

"Now I come to look at you, I think I have seen you before," continued
the driver.

"Where?"

"In Emmonsville--at the bank."

Ernest became alarmed. There was a significance in his companion's
tone which excited his alarm. But he did not dare show his feelings.
He remained outwardly calm, though inwardly disturbed.

"Very probably," he said; "I have been there."

His companion laughed. He was playing with the boy as a cat plays with
a captive mouse. Ernest began to consider whether he could not think
of some pretext for getting out of the buggy.

Suddenly the buggy stopped.

"I will get out here," said Ernest, quickly.

"Not quite yet. I have not got through questioning you."

"I am in a hurry," said Ernest.

"You must wait till your hurry is over. Now tell me truly, are you not
bound for the Lee's Falls bank?"

Ernest was startled.

"You see I know more about you than you suppose. You are the bank
messenger."

It seemed useless to deny it. The important question now was, was his
secret packet in danger?

"I have sometimes acted as bank messenger," he said warily.

"And you are acting in that capacity now. What are you taking to the
Lee's Falls bank?"

Ernest turned pale. His worst fears were confirmed.

"Why do you ask?" he said.

"Because I want to know."

"What business can it be of yours?" demanded Ernest, boldly.

"Don't be impudent, boy! Hand me the package of money."

"I have no package of money."

"Then you have bonds."

Ernest remained silent.

"I see that I have hit it. Now hand over the bonds, if you value your
life."

He spoke sternly, and looked so fierce that the boy messenger became
more and more alarmed. He saw that he must give up the package, but
determined to hold out in his resistance as long as possible.

"The package is not mine, and I have no right to surrender it," he
said.

"I'll take the responsibility, boy. You can't be blamed, for you can't
help your self."

As he spoke, he passed his hand over Ernest's vest, which he saw
projected more than was usual, and discovered the hiding-place of the
important package.

Instantly he had torn open the vest and drawn out the envelope.

"I thought I should find it," he said in a tone of triumph.

Ernest felt very much dejected. It was a mortification to lose the
first large sum with which he had been intrusted.

"Will you tell me who you are?" he asked abruptly.

"First, let me know who you think I am."

As the driver spoke he eyed Ernest sharply. "Is your name Fox?" asked
the young  messenger.

His companion laughed.

"I know Mr. Fox," he answered.

"You are either Fox or a member of his band."

"You seem to be a sharp boy; I won't tell you whether you are right or
not."

"I suppose I may go now."

"Where do you want to go?"

Ernest hesitated. This was a question which he could not at once
answer. To go on to Lee's Falls without the packet would do little
good. Yet the bank officers there ought to know that the bonds
intended for them had been stolen. Besides, he was too far from
Emmonsville to return that night.

"I will go to Lee's Falls," he said.

"Not at present; I have other views for you." As he spoke the robber
turned his horse to the right. Wholly ignorant as to where he was to
be carried, Ernest sank back in his seat and resigned himself as well
as he could to the situation.




CHAPTER XVI.

THE OUTLAW'S HOME,

Where he was to be carried or what was to be his fate Ernest could not
conjecture, nor did he speculate much. It was enough for him to know
that he was in the power of one of the notorious outlaws.

There was considerable difference between his appearance and that of
the man at his side. He was silent and depressed, while James Fox, for
it was he, seemed in excellent spirits. He turned to the boy with the
remark, "You don't say much."

"No, for it would be no good."

"Brace up, boy! There is no occasion to look as if you were going to a
funeral."

"Give me back the bonds and I will look lively enough."

"Come now, don't be foolish. These bonds don't belong to you."

"They were given into my care."

"Very well! You took as good care of them as you could."

"I shall be held responsible for them."

"No, you won't. I shall send your employers a letter, letting them
know that you did the best you could to keep them out of my hands. But
perhaps they never heard of me," and he laughed.

"If your name is Fox, they have heard of you."

"There is no need to beat about the bush. My name is Fox--James Fox."

"What made you take up such a business, Mr. Fox?" asked Ernest,
gravely.

"Well, I like that! You, a kid, undertake to lecture me."

"You were once a kid yourself."

The outlaw's face grew grave suddenly, and his tone became thoughtful.

"Yes, I was a kid once. At sixteen--is that your age?"

"Yes."

"Well, at sixteen I was as innocent as you. I had a good mother then.
If she had lived, perhaps I would have turned out different. Why, it
seems a great joke, doesn't it? I attended Sunday-school till I was
fifteen."

"You haven't forgotten it, then?"

"No, nor the lessons I learned there. But it is of no use to recall
those days. Are you afraid that you will come to harm?"

Ernest looked intently in the brigand's face.

"No," he said, after a pause. "I think you won't do me any more harm.
But you can do me a great favor."

"What is that--return you the bonds?"

"I would ask that if I thought you would do it, but I don't expect it.
I should like to have you release me and let me go home."

"I can't do that, for I want you to visit me. You may not think it,
but I always like young people. It will be quite a pleasure to me to
have you for a visitor."

"Thank you, but I am afraid that I shall become an unwilling guest."

"Besides, it will be a pleasure to my little boy to meet you. He does
not often meet other boys."

"Have you a son?" asked Ernest in surprise.

The outlaw's face softened.

"Yes," he answered. "He is a sweet little boy, as I can say, even if
he is my son. His name is Frank. Would you like to see his picture?"

"Yes," answered Ernest with interest.

James Fox drew from an inner pocket a small card photograph of a young
boy with a very winning face. Ernest was attracted, for, unlike many
boys of his age, he liked younger children. He looked at the picture
long and earnestly.

"It is a sweet face," he said at last.  "Isn't it?" asked the proud
father.

"Is his mother living?"

"No."

"Was there no difficulty in getting it taken?"

"I suppose you mean on account of my profession. Well, there might be
around here, but this was taken in Minneapolis--about a year ago. It
was one of the few visits that Frank has made with me."

"Are you going to bring him up to your business?"

"Take care, boy," said the outlaw, frowning. "Don't be impertinent."

"I don't mean to be. Do you think the question an improper one?"

"Well, perhaps I have no right to think so. Somehow the business,
though it seems all right for me, I couldn't think of for my boy. No,
I shall soon place him at school where no one will know that he is
related to the celebrated outlaw. I want him brought up to lead an
honest life."

"I am glad you do. I respect you for that."

"My lad, you seem to be one of the right sort. As you will see my son,
I want you to promise me that you won't say a word about the business
I am engaged in."

"I will make that promise. Then the boy doesn't know?"

"No; he has no suspicion. He is too young to think much about that.
Perhaps if he had associated with other boys much he would have found
out."

While this conversation was going on they had entered a wood, and the
road became wilder and rougher. Indeed, it was hardly a road, but
rather a lane, narrow and grass-grown.

Ernest began to wonder in what sort of a home his companion lived. His
evident affection for his son gave Ernest a different feeling towards
him. It was plain that he had a softer side to his nature, bandit
though he was.

Ernest had never read the story of Jekyll and Hyde, but he felt
instinctively that the man beside him had a double nature. On the road
he was an outlaw, with corresponding traits, a rough and unscrupulous
man, but at home, and in the presence of his son, as Ernest judged, he
was a warm-hearted and affectionate father.

In truth, the young bank messenger looked forward with interest to a
meeting with the boy who was so dear to the heart of a man whom the
world generally supposed to be a stranger to the softer emotions.

At length they reached a rocky hillside. Here the outlaw pulled up his
horse and jumped from the buggy. Ernest looked at him in a questioning
way.

"You can get out," he said. "We have arrived."

Ernest alighted and looked about him. He naturally expected to see a
dwelling of some kind, but there was none in sight. If it was at a
distance, why should they not have driven to it?

James Fox looked at him with a smile, enjoying his perplexity.

From his pocket he drew a handkerchief.

"Come here, my boy," he said.

Ernest did not quite understand what he proposed to do, but he felt
better acquainted with the outlaw now, and he knew that there was no
cause for apprehension. He accordingly approached without question.

James Fox bandaged his eyes so that he could see nothing. Then he took
him by the hand and led him forward.

Ernest could not tell what was being done, but he found himself
walking on a rocky path, hand in hand with his guide. How long he
walked he could not tell. It might have been two hundred feet. Then
his guide stopped, and of course he stopped, too.

Next the handkerchief was removed, and he found himself in what seemed
a rocky cavern. At any rate it was a large room, of irregular shape,
but the stone floor had been made smooth, and was covered by a soft
carpet. It was furnished like a sitting-room in a private house. There
were comfortable chairs, including a rocking-chair, and a capacious
arm-chair. On one side of the room was an inviting-looking couch.

Of course there would have been perfect darkness but for artificial
light. On a table was a large student's lamp, and in a niche in the
wall was another. Besides this, there was a lantern hanging from the
roof of the chamber, but this was not lighted.

Ernest looked about him with curiosity and surprise. It was something
new to him, and recalled a story he had once read, in which a
cave-dwelling was described.

"Well, what do you think of it?" asked the outlaw, smiling.

"It is wonderful," said Ernest.

"You did not know where I was bringing you?"

"No. It is a cave, is it not?"

"Well, it looks like it."

"There are other rooms, are there not?"

"Yes, but this is my private apartment; my parlor, you may call it.
This is my sleeping-room."

He drew aside the hangings on the further side and revealed an inner
chamber, of less size.

On a bed Ernest's attention was drawn to the figure of a sleeping boy
evidently the original of the picture which the outlaw had shown him.

"That is your son?" asked Ernest.

"Yes, that is Frank."

The outlaw's stern countenance softened as he regarded the sleeping
boy.

Suddenly the boy stirred; he opened his eyes, and when he recognized
his father a glad smile lighted up his innocent face.

"Papa!" he said, and James Fox bent over and kissed him.




CHAPTER XVII.

IN THE ROBBER'S CAVE.

After kissing his father the young boy looked inquisitively at Ernest.

"Who is that boy, papa?" he asked.

"I have brought him here to stay with you. Shall you like to have his
company?"

"Yes, papa. You know it is very lonely while you are away. What is his
name?"

The outlaw looked at Ernest significantly. He took the hint and
answered, "My name is Ernest Ray."

"How old are you, Ernest?" went on the boy.

"Sixteen."

"I am only ten."

"Are you ready to get up, Frank?" asked his father.

"Yes," answered the young boy briskly. "I got sleepy because I was
alone. Where did papa find you, Ernest?"

"Oh, I met him outside, and he took me to ride."

James Fox looked approval of this answer.

"I am glad you came with him. You seem like a nice boy, Ernest."

"So do you, Frank."

By this time Frank had slid from the bed and put his hand in Ernest's.

"Come here," he said, "and I will show you my books."

Led by his small companion, Ernest went up to a bookcase which he had
not before observed in the main room. About thirty books stood on the
shelves.

"Where did you get your books?" he asked.

"Papa bought them for me in Minneapolis. Were you ever in
Minneapolis?"

"No."

"It is a nice place. Sometimes I think I would like to live there
instead of here."

"You are not getting tired of home, are you, Frank?" asked his father,
half reproach fully.

"No, papa, but it is lonely here sometimes. Am I to live here always?"

"No, Frank. Some time I will send you to school. But you won't see me
every day then."

"Then I don't want to go."

The outlaw stooped over and kissed the boy.

"Now, Frank, I have something to do, so you may amuse yourself with
Ernest."

"Can you play dominos?" asked Frank.

"Yes; have you a set?"

"Yes."

The boy opened a drawer in a bureau and drew out a box of dominos. He
poured them out on the table and they began to play the ordinary game.
When they tired of that, Ernest taught him a new one.

After they grew tired of playing, Ernest read aloud to the boy from
one of his favorite books.

They were sitting together in the arm-chair, when James Fox, who had
left the room, returned. He smiled approvingly at the picture. He was
pleased to think that he had found a companion whom his boy liked.

"What have you been doing, Frank?" he asked.

"He has been reading to me, papa. He reads nicely, and I liked it very
much."

"I am sorry to interrupt you, but are not you young people hungry?"

"I think I could eat something," answered Ernest.

"Frank, you may bring him into the dining-room."

The drapery was lifted, and they passed into a room as large as the
one they were in. On a table in the centre a substantial meal,
consisting principally of roast beef, was set forth. An old colored
woman--intensely black and slightly deformed--hovered near, evidently
the cook.

"Juba," said the outlaw, "this is a new boarder. His name is Ernest,"

"Glad to see you, Massa Ernest," rejoined the old woman, nodding her
turban. "Sit down here next to Massa Frank."

It seemed very strange to Ernest to reflect that he was the guest of
one of the famous outlaws of whom he had heard so much. He was half
inclined to doubt whether it was real. If he had been alone he would
have pinched himself to see whether he was awake or dreaming. Here he
was, in the bowels of the earth, on intimate terms with an outlaw and
his family. How long was he to stay in the cavern? That was a
question impossible to answer. Meanwhile he was hungry, and the
dinner was well cooked.

In spite of his being a prisoner and the loss of the packet, Ernest
was almost ashamed of himself for the appetite which he manifested.
But it seemed to give pleasure to Juba, who regarded it as a
compliment to her cookery.

"Where is Uncle John, papa?" asked Frank, suddenly.

Ernest remembered that one of the Fox brothers was named John, and he
awaited the answer with interest.

James Fox seemed busily thinking, and Frank had to repeat the
question.

"Your Uncle John?" repeated the outlaw. "He went away on business."

"What kind of business, papa?"

It was a natural question, but it startled James Fox. He saw that as
his son became older it might not be easy to evade embarrassing
questions.

"You seem curious, Frank," he answered after a pause. "You wouldn't
understand if I were to tell you."

"Will you teach me your business some day, papa?"

It was on the tip of the outlaw's tongue to say, "Heaven forbid!" but
he only answered, "Wait till you are older, Frank. Then we will talk
about it."

At length they rose from the table.

They went back to the main room, and Ernest read a little more to the
young boy. But Frank's eyes grew heavy, and he finally dropped off to
sleep.

"Shall I lay him on the bed, Mr. Fox?" asked Ernest.

"No, I will do so."

He took the boy tenderly in his arms.

"If I had known he would fall asleep I would have undressed him," he
said.

After placing the boy on the bed he resumed his seat in the arm-chair
and began to smoke. Finally, he looked over at Ernest.

"Do you like my little boy?" he asked abruptly.

"He is a dear little fellow," answered Ernest.

"So he is," said the father in a soft voice. "You have no prejudice
against him because he is my son?"

"No," answered Ernest. "Whatever you are, he is not responsible."

"True, but all might not take that view of it. I don't know why I
should speak so confidentially to you, lad, but if I ever regret my
line of life it is when I look at him. I wouldn't like to have his
future marred by his association with me. I wouldn't like people to
turn from him because he was an outlaw's son."

"I hope you will forgive my boldness," said Ernest, "but don't you
think you will ever change your mode of life?"

"It is too late; I am too well known. Yet who knows?" he said, after a
pause. "Nothing is impossible."

At nine o'clock Juba entered the room.

"Has John returned?" asked the outlaw.

"No, massa."

A shade of anxiety overspread the outlaw's face.

"He should have been here before this," he said. Then, looking at
Ernest, he said, "I am going out a while. Lie down on the bed with
Frank, and if he wakes up undress him."

"Yes, sir."

An hour later Frank and Ernest were sleeping peacefully side by side.

When Ernest awoke the next morning Frank was still asleep on the bed
beside him. In the large room adjoining, James Fox lay on the lounge.
He had given his bed to Ernest. He had not himself undressed, but had
thrown himself on the couch in his ordinary clothes.

Breakfast was ready by the time they were, and the three sat down
together.

"Where is Uncle John, papa?" asked Frank.

"He has not returned, Frank," said James Fox, soberly.

"What made him stay away all night?"

"Probably it was business," answered the outlaw, but Ernest noticed
that he looked disturbed.

In truth he had been out till two o'clock seeking for his brother, who
he feared had got into trouble. We know that he was in the prison at
Crampton, whither he had been conveyed by Luke Robbins and Ezekiel
Mason. Of course it was in the mind of James Fox that his brother
might have been arrested, since this was a risk which he daily
incurred.

Just as breakfast was over there was a new arrival. It was a tall,
stalwart fellow, whom James Fox addressed as Hugh.

"Do you bring any news, Hugh?" asked the outlaw eagerly.

"Yes," answered Hugh Humphries.

"Is it about John?"

Hugh glanced significantly at the two boys. Ernest he saw for the
first time.

James Fox understood and followed Hugh out of the room.

"Well," he said inquiringly, when they were out of hearing.

"Mr. John is in trouble," answered Hugh, briefly.

"Go on," said James Fox. "Do you know where he is?"

"In Crampton jail."

"Go on. Give me the particulars."

"He was carried there by two persons."

"Who were they?"

"One I think was a farmer who lives in Claremont. The other seemed to
be a Quaker."

"I don't remember any Quaker in this neighborhood. He must be a
stranger hereabouts."

"I think I have seen him before."

"Where?"

"At the Emmonsville bank. I was passing there one day in disguise, and
chancing to look in, I saw this man sitting on a bench near the paying
teller's desk."

"Ah!" said James Fox, thoughtfully. "He may be a detective."

"That is what I thought."

"That is bad news, but the jail at Crampton is not very strong. I have
been confined there myself and made my escape. However, John will need
assistance from the outside."

"I see you have a new boy," said Hugh, curiously. "When did you pick
him up?"

"Yesterday, a few miles from here. He is a bank messenger."

"From what bank?"

"The Emmonsville bank."

"Then he may know something of this Quaker detective."

"Well suggested. I will question him."




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE OUTLAW AND HIS BAND.

When James Fox returned to the apartment where the boys were still
seated at the table he said, "Ernest, I should like to speak to you a
minute."

Ernest followed him out of the room.

"Is there any person connected with the bank at Emmonsville who wears
the dress of a Quaker?" began the outlaw.

Ernest hesitated a moment.

"Speak out, boy!" said Fox. "I must and will know."

"Yes, sir."

"Is he a detective?"

"He may act as such."

"Is he under pay at the bank?"

"I think he is."

"Do you know where he is now?"

"No."

"Was he at the bank when you left it yesterday afternoon?"

"No, sir."

"Do you know where he was?"

"I saw him ride away with a farmer."

John Fox and Hugh exchanged glances. Their suspicions were confirmed.

"Is he in any trouble?" asked Ernest, becoming a questioner in his
turn.

"No. For aught I know he may be at the bank."

Ernest looked relieved, and for two reasons. He was glad that Luke was
not in trouble. Then he knew that when his disappearance was
discovered, Luke would leave no stone unturned to rescue him. It was a
comfort to think that he had a powerful friend outside.

"That will do," said the outlaw. "You may return to Frank."

"How long are you going to keep me here?" asked Ernest, anxiously.

"Are you already tired of remaining with us?"

There was something in the outlaw's tone that savored of kindness.
Ernest felt that in some way he had ingratiated himself with him.

"I would like my freedom. I am not used to confinement," he said.

"Very natural. I cannot let you go just yet, but I will not allow you
to be harmed. Do not be alarmed."

"I am not," answered Ernest.

"Why not? You know my reputation."

"Yes, but thus far you have been kind to me."

"True. I like you, for you are kind to my boy, and I see that he
enjoys your company. Listen! I shall be away all day, probably. Do
what you can to amuse Frank."

"I will. I should be very lonely without him."

"That is a good boy, Hugh," said John Fox, as Ernest left them. "I
should like to keep him with us."

"Why don't you, then?"

"I am afraid he would be unhappy."

"I never knew you to take such a liking to a boy before."

"I never have. Indeed, I have seldom met any. All my dealings have
been with men. But, Hugh, we must lose no time. We must try to rescue
John, if possible. It is no more than he would do for me, if our cases
were reversed."

"Very well, captain. I am ready to follow wherever you lead."

"I know that, Hugh. You have always been faithful to my brother and
myself."

"I always will be, captain," said Hugh, with a look of loyal
devotion.

"I know it. I am sure that we have no better friend than Hugh
Humphries."

"You only do me justice, captain. Will you forgive me if I say
something?"

"Say what you please, Hugh."

"What you have said of me is just, but I don't think you can say it of
all in the band."

"Is there any one whom you suspect? If so, it is your duty to tell
me."

"I don't take much stock in Peter Longman."

"I am afraid you are suspicious, Hugh."

"Not without cause. I have noticed some things about him that I don't
like. I think he is quite capable of turning against you."

"I have never remarked anything of the sort, but I know you would not
speak without cause. Tell me what you want me to do."

"Only to be on your guard. Don't trust Peter as you trust me."

"I never have. And now have you any suggestions to make?"

"You might visit this farmer who helped the Quaker arrest your
brother."

"It may be a good plan. Who is the farmer?"

"His name is Ezekiel Mason."

"I know where he lives. He is the last man I should suppose would be
capable of such mischief."

"He could have done nothing without the Quaker's help."

"Very well, we will take the farm on the way. Still I don't know that
we shall learn anything beyond what we already know."

Before leaving the cave they disguised themselves as farm workmen. In
this dress they approached the farm-house, but there was something
that diverted them from their original purpose and led them to keep
their distance.

Sitting on the portico was a tall man dressed as a Quaker.

"That's the man!" Said Hugh, quickly. "That's the man who drove up to
the jail last evening with your brother."

James Fox looked at him closely.

"It is best to let sleeping dogs lie," he said. "We will push on to
the jail."




CHAPTER XIX.

A DAY IN THE CAVE.

Meanwhile Ernest was left in the cave with Frank. He had been brought
in blindfolded, and was therefore ignorant as to the entrance or exit.
He thought he might, without arousing the boy's suspicion, seek
information from him on these points.

"Are there many rooms here, Frank?" he asked.

"Oh, a good many," answered the boy.

"Have you been in many?"

"I have been around with papa."

"I should like to go round," said Ernest. "Suppose we take a little
walk."

"I'll go with you. I should be afraid to go alone."

"Does Juba ever go out?"

