if you've got a fiver," he said easily, "I'll call it square."
"I haven't so much as a five-cent piece," sobbed Helena, with a fresh
burst of tears. "Oh, 'Léna, what shall we do?"
"You'll come with me! that's what you'll do." He took them firmly by the
hand and dragged them through the crowd, a section of which had
transferred its attentions to the victims of the officer's wrath. But
the three were soon hurrying up a dark cross-street toward a car; and as
they went Helena recovered herself, and began to cast about among her
plentiful resource. She dared not risk telling this man their names, and
bid him take them home in hope of reward, for he would certainly demand
that reward of their scandalised parents. No, she decided, she would
confide in the dignitary in charge at the station; and as soon as he
knew who she was, he would be sure to let them go at once.
They went up town on a street-car. Helena had never been in one before,
and the experience interested her; but Magdaléna sat dumb and wretched.
She had been a docile child, and her father's anger had never been
visited upon her; but she had seen his frightful outbursts at the
servants, and once he had horsewhipped a Mexican in his employ until the
lad's shrieks had made Magdaléna put her fingers in her ears. He would
not whip her, of course; but what would he do? And this horrid man, who
was of the class of her father's coachman, had called her a "greaser."
She had all the pride of her race. The insult stifled her. She felt
smirched and degraded.
Nor was this all: she had had her first signal experience of the pall
that lines the golden cloud.
The officer motioned to the conductor to stop in front of a squat
building in front of the Old Plaza. The man, whose gall had been slowly
rising for want of drink, hurried them roughly off the car and across
the sidewalk into a dark passage. Their feet lagged, and he shoved them
before him, flourishing his bludgeon.
"Git on! Git on!" he said. "There's no gittin' out of this until you've
served your time."
The words and the dark passage made Helena shiver. What if they would
not give her a chance to speak, but should lock her up at once? She knew
nothing of these dark doings of night. Perhaps the policeman would take
them directly to a cell. In that case, she must confide in him.
They entered a room, and her confidence returned. A man sat at a desk,
an open ledger before him. He was talking to several tramps who stood in
various uneasy attitudes in front of the desk. His face was tired, but
his eyes had a humourous twinkle. He did not glance at the new-comers.
"Sit down," commanded the policeman, "and wait your turn."
The girls sat down uncomfortably on the edge of a bench. In a moment
they noticed a young man sitting near the desk and writing on a small
pad of paper. He looked up, looked again, regarding them intently, then
rose and approached the policeman.
"Hello, Tim," he said. "What have you got here? A girl in boys'
clothes?"
"That's about the size of it."
Helena pulled her cap over her eyes and reddened to her hair. For the
first time she fully realised her position. She was Colonel Jack
Belmont's daughter, and she was waiting in the city prison as a common
vagrant. Magdaléna bent her head, pulling the shawl more closely about
her face.
The young man looked them over sharply. "They are the kids of
somebodies," he said audibly. "Look at their hands. There's a 'story'
here."
Helena turned cold and set her teeth. She had no idea who the young man
might be, but instinct told her that he threatened exposure.
A few moments later the tramps had gone, and the man at the desk asked
the policeman what charge he preferred against his arrests.
"This one's a girl in boys' clothes, sir, and both, I take it, are
vagrants. The House of Correction is the place for 'em, I'm thinkin'."
Magdaléna's head sank still lower, and she dug her nails into her palms
to keep from gasping. But Helena, in this crucial moment, was game. She
walked boldly forward and said authoritatively,--
"I wish to speak alone with you."
The sergeant recognised the great I AM of the American maiden; he also
recognised her social altitude. But he said, with what severity he could
muster,--
"If you have anything private to say, you can whisper it."
Helena stepped behind the desk and put her lips close to his ear. "I am
Colonel Jack Belmont's daughter," she whispered. "Send me home, quick,
and he'll make it all right with you to-morrow."
"A chip of the old block," muttered the sergeant, with a smile. "I see.
And who is your companion?"
Helena hesitated. "Do--do I need to tell you?" she asked.
"You must," firmly.
"She's--you'll never breathe it?"
"You must leave that to my discretion. I shall do what is best."
"She is the daughter of Don Roberto Yorba."
"O Lord! O Lord!" He threw back his head and gave a prolonged chuckle.
The young man edged up to the desk.
"Who is that man?" demanded Helena, haughtily. She felt quite mistress
of the situation.
"He's a reporter."
"What's that?"
"Why, a reporter for the newspapers."
"I know nothing of the newspapers," said Helena, with an annihilating
glance at the reporter. "My father does not permit me to read them."
The sergeant sprang to his feet. "This is no place for you," he
muttered. "That's the best thing I've heard of Jack Belmont for some
time. Here, come along, both of you."
He motioned to the girls to enter the passage, and turned to the
officer. "Don't let anybody leave the room till I come back," he said;
and the reporter, who had started eagerly forward, fell back with a
scowl. "There's no 'story' in this, young man," said the sergeant,
severely; "and you'll oblige me," with significant emphasis, "by
making no reference to it."
"I think you're just splendid!" exclaimed Helena, as they went down the
passage.
"Oh, well, we all like your father. Although it would be a great joke on
him,--Scott, but it would! However, it wouldn't be any joke on you a few
years from now, so I'm going to send you home with a little good
advice,--don't do it again."
"But it's such fun to run to fires!" replied Helena, who now feared
nothing under heaven. "We did have a time!"
"Well, if you're set on running to fires, go in your own good clothes,
with money enough in your pocket to grease the palm of people like our
friend Tim. Here we are."
He called a hack and handed the girls in.
"Please tell him to stop a few doors from the house," said Helena;
"and," with her most engaging smile, "I'm afraid I'll have to ask you to
pay him. If you'll give me your address, I'll send you the amount first
thing to-morrow."
"Oh, don't mention it. Just ask your father to vote for Tom Shannon when
he runs for sheriff. It's no use asking anything of old Yorba," he
added, with some viciousness. "And I'd advise you, young lady, to keep
this night's lark pretty dark."
The remark was addressed to Magdaléna, but she only lifted her head
haughtily and turned it away. Helena replied hastily,--
"My father shall vote for you and make all his friends vote, too. I
won't tell him about this until next Wednesday, the day before I leave
for New York; then he'll be feeling so badly he won't say a word, and
he'll be so grateful to you that he'll do anything. Good-night."
"Good-night, miss, and I guess you'll get along in this world."
As the carriage drove off, Helena threw her arms about Magdaléna, who
was sitting stiffly in the corner. "Oh, darling, dearest!" she
exclaimed. "What have I made you go through? And you're so generous,
you'll never tell me what a villain I am. But you will forgive me, won't
you?"
"I am just as much to blame as you are. I was not obliged to go."
"But it was dreadful, wasn't it? That horrid low policeman! The idea of
his daring to put his hand on my shoulder. But we'll just forget it, and
next week, to-morrow, it will be as if it never had happened."
Magdaléna made no reply.
"'Léna!" exclaimed Helena, sharply. "You're never going to own up?"
"I must," said Magdaléna, firmly. "I've done a wicked thing. I've
disobeyed my father, who thinks it's horrible for girls to be on the
street even in the daytime alone, and I've nearly disgraced him. I've no
right not to tell him. I must!"
"That's your crazy old New England conscience! If you were all Spanish,
you'd look as innocent as a madonna for a week, and if you were my kind
of Californian you'd cheek it and make your elders feel that they were
impertinent for taking you to task."
"You are half New England."
"So I am, but I'm half Southerner, too, and all Californian. I'm just
beautifully mixed. You're not mixed at all; you're just hooked together.
Come now, say you won't tell him. He's a terror when he gets angry."
"I must tell him. I'd never respect myself again if I didn't. I've done
lots of other things and didn't tell, but they didn't matter,--that is,
not so much. He's got a right to know."
"It's a pity you're not more like him, then you wouldn't tell."
"What do you mean, Helena? I am sure my father never told a lie."
Helena was too generous to tell what she knew. She asked instead, "I
wonder would your conscience hurt you so hard if everything had turned
out all right, and we were coming home in our own hack?"
Magdaléna thought a moment. "It might not to-night, but it would
to-morrow. I am sure of that," she said.
Helena groaned. "You are hopeless. Thank Heaven, I was born without a
conscience,--that kind, anyhow. I intend to be a law all to myself. I'm
Californian clear through into my backbone."
The hack stopped. The girls alighted and walked slowly forward. Mr.
Belmont's house was the first of the three.
"Well," said Helena, "here we are. I'm going to climb up the pillar and
walk along the ledge. How are you going in?"
"Through the front door."
"Well, if you will, you will, I suppose. Kiss me good-night."
Magdaléna kissed her and walked on. A half-moment later Helena called
after her in a loud whisper,--
"Take off that shawl!"
Magdaléna lifted her hand to her chin, then dropped it. When she reached
her own home, she rang the bell firmly. The Chinaman who opened the door
stared at her, the dawn of an expression on his face.
"Where is Don Roberto?" she asked.
"In loffice, missee."
Magdaléna crossed the hall and tapped at the door of the small room her
father called his office. Don Roberto grunted, and she opened the door
and went in. He was writing, and wheeled about sharply.
"What?" he exclaimed. "What the devil! Take that shawl off the head."
Magdaléna removed the shawl and sat down.
"I went to a fire," she said. "I got taken up by a policeman and went to
the station. A man named Tom Shannon said he wouldn't lock me up, and
sent me home. He paid for the carriage." She paused, looking at her
father with white lips.
His face had turned livid, then purple. "Dios!" he gasped. "Dios!"
And then she knew how furious her father was. When his life was in even
tenor he never used his native tongue. "Dios!" he repeated. "Tell that
again. You go with that little devil, Helena Belmont, I suppose. Madre
de Dios! Again! Again!"
"I went to a fire--south of Market Street. A policeman arrested me for a
vagrant. He called me a greaser--"
Her father sprang to his feet with a yell of rage. He caught his
riding-whip from the mantel.
She stumbled to her feet. "Papa!" she said. "Papa! You will not do
that!"
A few moments later she was in her own room. The stars shone full on her
pretty altar. She turned her back on it and sat down on the floor. She
had not uttered a word as her father beat her. Even now she barely felt
the welts on her back. But her self-respect had been cut through at
every blow, and it quivered and writhed within her. She hated her father
and she hated life with an intensity which added to her misery, and she
decided that she had made her last confession to any one but the priest,
who always forgave her. If she did wrong in the future and her father
found it out, well and good; but she would not be the one to tell him.
VII
It was a part of her punishment that she was to be locked in her room
until Helena left for New York; but Helena visited her every night in
her time-honoured fashion. Magdaléna never told of the blows, but
confinement was a sufficient excuse to her restless friend for any
amount of depression; and Helena coaxed twenty dollars out of her father
and bought books and bonbons for the prisoner, which she carefully
disposed about her person before making the ascent. Magdaléna hid her
presents in a bureau drawer; and it is idle to deny that they comforted
her. One of the books was "Jane Eyre," and another Mrs. Gaskell's Life
of Charlotte Brontë. They fired her with enthusiasm, and although she
cried all night after the equally tearful Helena had said good-bye to
her, she returned to them next day with undiminished enthusiasm.
The Sunday after Helena's departure she was permitted to go to church.
She was attended by her mother's maid, a French girl and a fervid
Catholic. St. Mary's Cathedral, in which Don Roberto owned a pew that he
never occupied, was at that time on the corner of California and Dupont
streets.
Magdaléna prayed devoutly, but only for the reestablishment of her
self-respect, and the grace of oblivion for the degradation to which her
father had subjected her. Later, she intended to pray that he might be
forgiven, both by herself and God, and that his heart should be softened
to the poor; but not yet. She must be herself again first.
Her head had been aching for two days, the result of long confinement
and too many bonbons. It throbbed so during service that she slipped
out, whispering to the maid that she only wanted a breath of fresh air
and would be back shortly.
She stood for a few moments on the steps. Her head felt better, and she
noticed how peaceful the city looked; yet, as ever, with its suggestion
of latent feverishness. She had heard Colonel Belmont say that there was
no other city in the world like it, and as she stood there and regarded
the precipitous heights with their odd assortment of flimsy "palaces"
and dilapidated structures dating back to the Fifties, she felt the
vague restlessness that brooded over everything, and understood what he
had meant; and she also knew that she understood as he had not. Above
was the dazzling sky, not a fleck in its blue fire. There was not a
breath of wind in the city. She had never known a more peaceful day. And
yet, if at any moment the earth had rocked beneath her feet, she would
have felt no surprise.
She felt the necessity for exercise. It was now over a week since she
had been out of her room, and during that time she had not only studied
as usual, but read and read and read. She did not remember to have ever
felt so nervous before. She could not go back into the Cathedral; it was
musty in itself and crowded with the Great Unwashed. But it would not be
right to disturb Julie. There could be no harm in the least bit of a
walk alone, particularly as her father was in Menlo Park. She glanced
about her dubiously. Chinatown, which began a block to her right, was
out of the question, although she would have liked to see the women and
the funny little Chinese babies that she had heard of: the fortunate
Helena had been escorted through Chinatown by her adoring parent and a
policeman. She did not care to climb twice the almost perpendicular hill
which led to her home, and at the foot of the hill was the business
portion of the city. There was only one other way, and it looked quiet
and deserted and generally inviting.
She crossed California Street and walked along Dupont Street. She saw to
her surprise that the houses were small and mean; those the fire had
eaten had hardly been worse. They had green outside blinds and appeared
to date from the discovery of gold at least.
"There are poor people so near us," she thought. "Even Helena never
guessed it. I am glad the plate had not been handed round; I will give
some one my quarter."
The houses were very quiet. The shutters were closed, but the slats were
open. She glanced in, but saw no one.
"Probably they are all in the Cathedral," she thought. "I am glad it is
so close to them."
She walked on, forgetting the houses for the minute, absorbed in her new
appreciation of the strange suggestiveness of San Francisco. Again,
something was shaping itself in her mind, demanding expression. She felt
that it would have the power to make her forget all that she did not
wish to remember, and thought that perhaps this was the sponge for the
slate the Virgin was sending in answer to her prayers.
Suddenly, almost in her ear, she heard a low chuckle. She started
violently; in all her life she had never heard anything so evil, so
appalling, as that chuckle. It had come from the window at her left. She
turned mechanically, her spirits sinking with nameless terror.
Her expanded eyes fastened upon the open shutters. A woman sat behind
them; at least, she was cast in woman's mould. Her sticky black hair was
piled high in puffs,--an exaggeration of the mode of the day. Her thick
lips were painted a violent red. Rouge and whitewash covered the rest of
her face. There was black paint beneath her eyes. She wore a dirty pink
silk dress cut shamefully low.
The blood burned into Magdaléna's cheeks. Of sin she had never heard.
She had no name for the creature before her, but her woman's instinct
whispered that she was vile.
The woman, who was regarding her malevolently, spoke. Magdaléna did not
understand the purport of her words, but she turned and fled whence she
had come. As she did so, the chuckle, multiplied a dozen-fold,
surrounded her. She stopped for a second and cast a swift glance about
her, fascinated, with all her protesting horror.
Behind every shutter which met her gaze was the duplicate of the
creature who had startled her first. As they saw her dismay, their
chuckle broke into a roar, then split into vocabulary. Magdaléna ran
faster than she had ever run in her life before. Suddenly she saw
Colonel Belmont sauntering down California Street, debonair as ever. His
long moustaches swept his shoulders. His soft hat was on the back of his
head, framing his bold handsome dissipated face. His frock-coat, but for
the lower button, was open, and stood out about the dazzling shirt, well
revealed by a low vest.
"Uncle Jack!" screamed Magdaléna. "Uncle Jack!"
Colonel Belmont jumped as if a battery had ripped up the ground in front
of him. Then he dashed across the street. "Good God!" he shouted. "Good
God!" He caught Magdaléna in his arms and carried her back to the shadow
of the cross.
"You two have been possessed by the devil of late," he began wrathfully,
but Magdaléna interrupted him.
"No! no!" she exclaimed. "I didn't know there was anything different
there from any other street. I didn't mean to."
"Well, I don't suppose you did. You never know where you are in this
infernal town, anyhow. Where's your maid?"
But Magdaléna had fainted.
VIII
After that, Magdaléna had brain fever. It was a sharp but brief attack,
and when she was convalescent the doctor ordered her to go to the
country at once and let her school-books alone. As Mrs. Yorba never left
her husband for any consideration, Magdaléna was sent to Menlo Park with
Miss Phelps. The time came when Magdaléna hated the monotony of Menlo,
with its ceaseless calling and driving, its sameness of days and
conversation; but at that age she loved the country in any form.
Menlo Park, originally a large Spanish grant, had long since been cut up
into country places for what may be termed the "Old Families of San
Francisco." The eight or ten families who owned this haughty precinct
were as exclusive, as conservative, as any group of ancient county
families in Europe. Many of them had been established here for twenty
years, none for less than fifteen. That fact set the seal of gentle
blood upon them for all time in the annals of California,--a fact in
which there is nothing humourous if you look at it logically; there is
really no reason why a new country should not take itself seriously.
Don Roberto owned a square mile known as Fair Oaks, in honour of the
ancient and magnificent woods upon it. These woods were in three
sections, separated by meadows, and there was a broad road through each,
but not a twig of the riotous underbrush had been sacrificed to a
foot-path. A hundred acres about the house--which was a mile from the
entrance to the estate--had been cleared for extensive lawns, ornamental
trees, and a deer park.
Directly in front of the house, across the driveway and starting from a
narrow walk between two great lawns, was a solitary eucalyptus-tree, one
of the few in the State at the time of its planting. It was some two
hundred feet high and creaked alarmingly in heavy winds; but Don
Roberto, despite Mrs. Yorba's protestations, would not have it uprooted:
he had a particular fondness for it because it was so little like the
palms and magnolias of his youth.
To the left of the house at the end of an avenue of cherry-trees was an
immense orchard surrounded by an avenue of fig-trees, and English
walnut-trees.
The house was as unlike the adobe mansions of the old grandees as was
the eucalyptus the palms. It was large, square, two-storied, and
although of wood, of massive appearance. It was, indeed, the most
solid-looking structure in California at that time. A deep verandah
traversed three sides of the house, its roof making another beneath the
bedroom windows. Its pillars were hidden under rose vines and wistaria.
The thirty rooms were somewhat superfluous, as Don Roberto would have
none of house-parties, but he could not have breathed in a small house.
The rooms were very large and lofty, the floors covered with matting,
the furniture light and plain. Above, as from the town house, floated
the American flag.
Colonel Belmont's estate adjoined Fair Oaks on one side, the
Montgomerys' on the other; and the Brannans, Kearneys, Gearys,
Washingtons, and Folsoms all spent their summers in that sleepy valley
between the waters of the San Francisco and the redwood-covered
mountains; these and others who have nothing to do with this tale. Hiram
Polk had no home in Menlo, excepting in his brother-in-law's house. Some
of his wife's happiest memories were of the Rancho de los Pulgas, and
she refused to witness its possession by the hated American. So Polk had
bought her one of the old adobe houses in Santa Barbara, and each year
she extended the limit of her sojourn in a town where memories were
still sacred.
IX
Magdaléna was languid and content. She put the terrible experiences
which had preceded her illness behind her without effort. Her mind dwelt
upon the joy of living in the sunshine, and upon the hopes of the
future. She admitted frankly that she was glad to be rid of her parents,
and only longed for Helena. That faithful youngster wrote, twice a week,
letters which were a succession of fireworks embellished by caricatures
of such of her teachers and acquaintance as had incurred her
disapproval. Her aunt, Mrs. Edward Forbes, who was one of the leaders of
New York society and a beauty, was giving her much petting and would
take her abroad later.
Magdaléna read these letters with delight stabbed with doubt. More than
once she had wondered if Helena had been born to realise all her own
ambitions. Even her letters were clever and original.
In a week Magdaléna was strong enough to walk in the woods, and Miss
Phelps placed no restraint upon her. She re-read what books she had,
then made out a list and sent it to her father to purchase, believing
that he would refuse her nothing after her illness. Don Roberto read the
note, grunted, and threw it into the waste-paper basket. He abominated
erudite women, and had the scorn of the financial mind for the
superfluous attributes of the intellectual. Magdaléna waited a
reasonable time, then after a day's hard fight with the reticence of her
nature, wrote and asked Colonel Belmont for the books. He sent them at
once, with a penitent note and an order on the principal bookseller of
the city for all that she might want in the future. "I will say a prayer
to the Virgin for him," thought Magdaléna, with a glow at her heart,
oblivious that the Virgin had refused to intercede with her father.
The packet contained the lives of a number of men and women who had
distinguished themselves in letters; but although Magdaléna read them
twice they told her little, save that she must read the works of the
masters and puzzle out their methods if she could.
Meanwhile, in spite of her studies, she was growing strong, for she
spent the day out of doors; and when her parents came down on the first
of June, they found her as shy and cold as ever, but with sparkling eyes
and a faint glow in her cheeks.
"But never she is beauty," said Don Roberto, that evening to Polk, as
the two men sat on the verandah, smoking. "Before, I resent very much,
and say damnation, damnation, damnation. But now I think I no mind. Si
she is beauty I think more often by that time--no can help. I wonder si
there are the beautiful women in the South now, like before; but, by
Jimminy! I like forget the place exeest. I am an American. Yes, Great
Scott!"
He stretched out his little fat legs and rested his third chin on his
inflexible shirt-front. He felt an American, every inch of him, and
hated anything that reminded him of what he might become did he yield to
the natural indolence and extravagance of his nature. He would gladly
have drained his veins and packed them with galloping American blood. It
grieved him that he could not eliminate his native accent, and he was
persuaded that he spoke the American tongue in all its purity, being
especially proud of a large assortment of expletives peculiar to the
land of his adoption.
Polk gave a short dry laugh and stretched out his long hard Yankee legs.
Even in the dusk his lantern jaws stood out. There was no doubt about
his nationality. Those legs and jaws were the objects of Don Roberto's
abiding envy.
"Pretty women in the family are a nuisance," said Polk. "They want the
earth, and don't see why they shouldn't get it. I wouldn't have that
Helena for another million. By the way, Jack told me a good story on you
yesterday."
Don Roberto grunted. His Spanish pride had not abated an inch. He
resented being discussed.
Polk continued: "There were seven or eight men talking over old
times in the Union Club the other night; that is to say, they were
reminiscing over the various enterprises they had been engaged in, and
the piles they had made and lost. Our names naturally came up, and
Brannan said, slowly, as if he were thinking it over hard,
'I--don't--think--I--had--any--dealings--with--Yorba--ever.' Whereupon
Washington replied, quick as a shot, 'You'd remember it if you had.'"
Don Roberto scowled heavily. It was one of his fictions that he
hoodwinked the world. He never snapped his fingers in its face as Polk
did: exteriorly a Yorba must always be a Yorba.
"Some day when the bank have lend Meester Washington one hundred
thousand dollars, I turn on the screw when he no is prepare to pay," he
said. And he did.
X
During the following week all Menlo, which had moved down before Mrs.
Yorba, called on that august leader. She received every afternoon on the
verandah, clad in black or grey lawn, stiff, silent, but sufficiently
gracious. On the day after her arrival, as the first visitor's carriage
appeared at the bend of the avenue, its advent heralded by the furious
barking of two mastiffs, a bloodhound, and an English carriage dog,
Magdaléna gathered up her books and prepared to retreat, but her mother
turned to her peremptorily.
"I wish you to stay," she said. "You must begin now to see something of
society. Otherwise you will have no ease when you come out. And try to
talk. Young people must talk."
"But I can't talk," faltered Magdaléna.
"You must learn. Say anything, and in time it will be easy."
Magdaléna realised that her mother was right. If she was to overcome her
natural lack of facile speech, she could not begin too soon. Although
she was terrified at the prospect of talking to these people who had
alighted and were exchanging platitudes with her mother, she resolved
anew that the time should come when she should be as ready of tongue and
as graceful of speech as her position and her pride demanded.
She sat down by one of the guests and stammered out something about the
violets. The young woman she addressed was of delicate and excessive
beauty: her brunette face, under a hat covered with corn-coloured
plumes, was almost faultless in its outline. She wore an elaborate and
dainty French gown the shade of her feathers, and her small hands and
feet were dressed to perfection. Magdaléna had heard of the beautiful
Mrs. Washington, and felt it a privilege to sun herself in such
loveliness. The three elderly ladies she had brought with her--Mrs.
Cartright, Mrs. Geary, and Mrs. Brannan--were dressed with extreme
simplicity.
"Yes," replied Mrs. Washington, "they are lovely,--they are, for a fact.
Mine have chilblains or something this year, and won't bloom for a cent.
Hang the luck! I'm as cross as a bear with a sore head about it."
"Would you like me to pick some of ours for you?" asked Magdaléna,
wondering if she had better model her verbal accomplishments on Mrs.
Washington's. She thought them even more picturesque than Helena's.
"Do; that's a jolly good fellow."
When Magdaléna returned with the violets, they were received with a
bewitching but absent smile; another carriage-load had arrived, and all
were discussing the advent of a "Bonanza" family, whose huge fortune,
made out of the Nevada mines, had recently lifted it from obscurity to
social fame.
"It's just too hateful that I've got to call," said Mrs. Washington, in
her refined melodious voice. "Teddy says that I must, because sooner or
later we've all got to know them,--old Dillon's a red Indian chief in
the financial world; and there's no use kicking against money, anyhow.
But I can't cotton to that sort of people, and I just cried last night
when Teddy--the old darling! I'd do anything to please him--told me I
must call."
"It's a great pity we old families can't keep together," said Mrs.
Brannan, a stout high-nosed dame. "There are plenty of others for them
to know. Why can't they let us alone?"
"That's just what they won't do," cried Mrs. Washington. "We're what
they're after. What's the reason they've come to Menlo Park? They'll be
'landed aristocracy' in less than no time. Hang the luck!"
"Shall you call, Hannah?" asked Mrs. Cartright. "Dear Jack never imposes
any restrictions on me,--he's so handsome about everything; so I shall
be guided by you."
"In time," replied Mrs. Yorba, who also had had a meaning conference
with her husband. "But I shall not rush. Toward the end of the summer,
perhaps. It would be unwise to take them up too quickly."
"I've got to give them a dinner," said Mrs. Washington, with gloom. "But
I'll put it off till the last gun fires. And you've all got to come.
Otherwise you'll see me on the war-path."
"Of course we shall all go, Nelly," said Mrs. Yorba. "We will always
stand in together."
The conversation flowed on. Other personalities were discussed, the
difficulty of getting servants to stay in the country, where there was
such a dearth of "me gentleman frien'," the appearance of the various
gardens, and the atrocious amount of water they consumed.
"I wish to goodness the water-works on top wouldn't shut off for eight
months in the year," exclaimed Mrs. Washington. "Whenever I want
something in summer that costs a pile, Teddy groans and tells me that
his water bill is four hundred dollars a month." And Mrs. Washington,
whose elderly and doting husband had never refused to grant her most
exorbitant whim, sighed profoundly.
Magdaléna did not find the conversation very interesting, nor was she
called upon to contribute to it. Nevertheless, she received every day
with her mother and went with her to return the calls. At the end of the
summer she loathed the small talk and its art, but felt that she was
improving. Her manner was certainly easier. She had decided not to
emulate Mrs. Washington's vernacular, but she attempted to copy her ease
and graciousness of manner. In time she learned to unbend a little, to
acquire a certain gentle dignity in place of her natural haughty
stiffness, and to utter the phrases that are necessary to keep
conversation going; but her reticence never left her for a moment, her
eyes looked beyond the people in whom she strove to be interested, and
few noticed or cared whether or not she was present. But at the end of
the summer she was full of hope; society might not interest her, but the
pride which was her chief characteristic commanded that she should hold
a triumphant place among her peers.
She had told neither of her parents of the books Colonel Belmont had
given her, knowing that the result would be a violent scene and an
interdiction. At this stage of her development she had no defined ideas
of right and wrong. Upon such occasions as she had followed the dictates
of her conscience, the consequences had been extremely unpleasant, and
in one instance hideous. She was indolent and secretive by nature, and
she slipped along comfortably and did not bother her head with problems.
XI
The Yorbas returned to town on the first of November. It was decided
that Magdaléna should continue her studies, but the rainy days and
winter evenings gave her long hours for her books. She found, to her
delight, that her brain was losing something of its inflexibility; that,
by reading slowly, one perusal of an ordinary book was sufficient. Her
memory was still incomplete, but it was improving. Her mother had ceased
to overlook her choice of books, being satisfied that Magdaléna would
never care for trash.
Magdaléna always found the big dark house oppressive after the months in
Menlo Park, and went out as often as she could. On fine days, attended
by Julie, she usually walked down to the Mercantile Library, and prowled
among the dusty shelves. The old Mercantile Library in Bush Street,
almost in the heart of the business portion of the city, had the most
venerable air of any building in California. There was, indeed, danger
of coming out covered with blue mould. And it was very dark and very
gloomy. It has always been suspected that it was a favourite resort for
suicides, but this, happily, has never been proved.
But Magdaléna loved it, for it held many thousand volumes, and they were
all at her disposal. Her membership was worth more to her than all her
father's riches. Julie, who hated the library, always carried a chair at
once to the register and closed her eyes, that she might not be
depressed to tears by the gloom and the walls of books, which were bound
as became all that was left of the dead.
It was during one of these visits that Magdaléna approached another
crisis of her inner life. She was wandering about aimlessly, hardly
knowing what she wanted, when her eye was caught by the title of a book
on an upper shelf: "Conflict between Religion and Science." She knew
nothing about science, but she wondered in what manner religion could
conflict with anything. She took the book down and read the first few
lines, then the page, then the chapter, still standing. When she had
finished she made as if to replace the book, then put it resolutely
under her arm, called Julie, and went home.
She read during the remainder of the afternoon, and as far into the
night as she dared. Before she went to bed she said her prayers more
fervently than ever, and the next morning considered deeply whether or
not she should return the book half read. She finally concluded to
finish it. Her intellect was voracious, and she had no other companion
but her religion. Moreover, if she was to aspire to a position in the
world of letters, she must equip her mind with the best that had gone
before. She had every faith in the power of the Catholic religion to
hold its own; her hesitation had been induced, not by fear of disturbing
her faith, but because she doubted, pricked by the bigotry in her veins,
if it was loyal to recognise the existence of the enemy.
However, she finished the book. On the following Saturday morning she
went down to the library and asked the librarian, who took some interest
in her, what he would advise her to read in the way of science; she had
lost all taste for anything else.
"Well, Darwin is about the best to begin on, I should say," he replied.
"He's easy reading on account of his style. And then I should advise you
to read Fiske's 'Outlines of Cosmic Philosophy' before you tackle
Herbert Spencer or Huxley or Tyndall."
Magdaléna took home Darwin's "Origin of Species" and "Descent of Man."
They so fascinated her that not until their contents had become a
permanent part of her mental furnishing did she realise their warfare on
revealed religion. But by this time science had her in its mighty grip.
She read all that the librarian had recommended, and much more. It was
some six months later that she fully realised that her faith was gone.
There came a time when her simple appeals to the Virgin stuck in her
throat; when she realised that her beloved masters, if they could have
seen her telling a rosary at the foot of her altar, would have thought
her a fool.
There was no struggle, for the work was done, and finally. But her grief
was deep and bitter. Religion had been a strong inherited instinct, and
it had been three fourths of her existence for nearly eighteen years.
She felt as if the very roots of her spirit had been torn up and lay
wilting and shrivelling in the cold light of her reason. She was
terrified at her new position. How was she, a mere girl, to think for
herself, to make her way through life, which every great writer told her
was a complex and crucifying ordeal, with no guide but her own poor
reason?
For the first time she felt her isolation. She had no one to go to for
sympathy, no one to advise her. Of all she knew, her parents were the
last she could have approached on any subject involving the surrender of
her reticence.
She lost interest in her books, and brooded, her mind struggling toward
will-o'-the-wisps in a fog-bank, until she could endure her solitary
position no longer; she felt that she must speak to some one or her
brain would fall to ashes. Her aunt was still in Santa Barbara, and
showed no disposition to return. A priest was out of the question. There
was no one but Colonel Belmont. Magdaléna knew nothing of his private
life: not a whisper had reached her secluded ears; but she doubted if
religion were his strong point. But he had always been kind, and she
knew him to be clever. It took her a week to make up her mind to speak
to him and to decide what to say; but when her decision was finally
reached, she walked through the connecting gardens one evening with firm
tread and set lips.
She entered the house by a side door and went to the library, where she
knew Colonel Belmont smoked his after-dinner cigar when at home. A
cordial voice answered her knock. When she entered he rose and came
forward with the graceful hospitality which never failed him in the
moments of his liveliest possession, and with the acute interest which
anything feminine and young never failed to inspire.
"Well, honey!" he exclaimed, kissing her warmly and handing her to a
chair; "you might have done this before. I'm such a lonely childless old
widower."
"Oh!" said Magdaléna, with contrition; "I never thought you'd care to
see me." She could not know that he seldom permitted himself to be
alone.
"Well, now you know it, you'll come oftener, won't you? Have you heard
from my baby lately? I had a letter a yard long this morning. She can
write!"
"I had one too." She hesitated a moment, then determined to speak at
once. She could not hold this nor any man's attention in ordinary
conversation, and she wanted to finish before she wearied him.
"Uncle Jack," she said, "I've come to see you about something in
particular. I know so few people, or I wouldn't bore you--"
"Don't you talk about boring me, honey,--you! Why, your old Uncle Jack
would do anything for you."
A light sprang into Magdaléna's eyes. Colonel Belmont forgot for the
moment that she was not beautiful, and warmed to interest at once. Few
people had ever withstood Jack Belmont's magnetism, and Magdaléna found
it easy to speak.
"It is this," she said. "I have been reading books lately that have
taken my religion from me; it has gone utterly. I want to ask you what I
shall do,--if there is anything to take its place. I--I--feel as if I
could not get along without something."
Colonel Belmont made a faint exclamation and wheeled about, staring at
the fire. His first impulse was to laugh, so ludicrous was the idea that
anyone should come to him for spiritual advice; his second to get out of
the room. He did neither, however, and ordered his intelligence to work.
He did not speak for some time; and Magdaléna, for the first moment,
watched him intently, scarcely breathing. Then her attention wandered
from herself, and she studied his profile. She noted for the first time
how worn it was, the bags under the injected eyes, the heavy lines about
the mouth. She had no name for what she saw written in that face, but
she suddenly felt herself in the presence of one of life's mysteries. Of
man's life she knew nothing--nothing. What did this man do when he was
not at home? Who were his friends besides her morose father, her cold
dry uncle? She felt Belmont's difference from both, and could not know
that they had much in common. What circumstances had imprinted that face
so differently from the few faces familiar to her? For the first time
man in the concrete interested her. She suddenly realised how profound
was her ignorance, despite the lore she had gathered from
books,--realised dimly but surely that there was a vast region called
life for her yet to explore, and that what bloomed for a little on its
surface was called human nature. She gave an involuntary shiver and sank
back in her chair. At the same moment Colonel Belmont looked round.
"Someone walking over your grave?" he asked, smiling. "What you asked
came on me right suddenly, 'Léna. I couldn't answer it all in a minute.
You didn't say much--you never do; so I understand how you've been
taking this thing to heart. I'm sorry you've lost your religion, for it
stands a woman in mighty well. They have the worst of it in this life."
Perhaps he was thinking of his wife. His face was very sober. "But if
you have lost it, that is the end of the chapter as far as you are
concerned. All I can think of is this--" the words nearly choked him,
but he went on heroically: "Do what you think is right in little matters
as well as in great. You've been properly brought up; you know the
difference between right and wrong; and all your instincts are naturally
good, if I know anything about women. As you grow older, you will see
your way more clearly. You won't have the temptations that many women
have, so that it will be easier for you than for some of the poor little
devils. And you'll never be poor. You'll find it easier than most--and
I'm glad of it!" he added with a burst of warm sympathy. Emotional by
nature, the unaccustomed experience had brought him to the verge of
tears; and Magdaléna, forlorn and lonely, but thanking him mutely with
her eloquent eyes, appealed to the great measure of chivalry in him.
"I am glad I spoke to you, Uncle Jack," she said after a moment. "You
have given me much to think about, and I am sure I shall get along much
better. Thanks, ever so much."
She did not rise to go, but was silent for several moments. Then she
asked abruptly,--
"What do you mean by women having temptations? I know by the way you
said it that you don't mean just ordinary every-day temptations."
Colonel Belmont glanced about helplessly. His eloquence had carried him
away; he had not paused to take feminine curiosity into account. He
encountered Magdaléna's eyes. They were fixed on him with solemn
inquiry, and they were very intelligent eyes. Did he take refuge in
verbiage, she would not be deceived. Did he refuse to continue the
conversation, she would be hurt. In either case her imagination would
have been set at work, and she might go far, and in the wrong direction,
to satisfy her curiosity. Once more he stared at the fire.
To his daughter he could have said nothing on such a subject: he was too
old-fashioned, too imbued with the chivalrous idea of the South of his
generation that women were of two kinds only, and that those who had
been segregated for men to love and worship and marry must never brush
the skirts of their thought against the sin of the world. They were
ideal creatures who would produce others like themselves, and men--like
himself.
But as he considered he realised that he had a duty toward Magdaléna,
which grew as he thought: she needed help and advice and had come to
him, having literally no one else to go to. After all, might she not
have temptations which would pass his beautiful, quick-witted,
triumphant daughter by? Helena, with the world at her feet, would have
little time for brooding, little time for anything but the lighter
pleasures of life under his watchful eye, until she loved and passed to
the keeping of a man who, he hoped, would be far stronger and finer than
himself. But Magdaléna? Repressed, unloved, intellectual, disappointed
at every turn, passionate undoubtedly,--there was no knowing to what
sudden extremes desperation might drive her. And the woman, no matter
how plain, had yet to be born who could not be utterly bad if she put
her mind to it. It was not only his duty to warn Magdaléna, but to give
her such advice as no mortal had ever heard from his lips before, nor
ever would hear again.
He drew a long breath and wheeled about. Magdaléna was leaning forward,
staring at him intently. There was no self-consciousness in her face,
and he realised in a flash that he would merely talk into a brain. Her
woman's nature would not be awakened by the homily of an elderly man.
The task became suddenly light.
"Well, it's just this: There's no moral law governing the animal
kingdom; but men and women were allowed to develop into speaking,
reasoning, generally intelligent beings for one purpose only: to make
the world better, not worse. Their reasoning faculty may or may not be a
spark of the divine force behind the universe; but there's no doubt
about the fact, not the least, that every intelligent being knows that
he ought to be at least two thirds good, and in his better
moments--which come to the worst--he has a desire to be wholly good, or
at least better than he has ever been. In other words, the best of men
strive more or less constantly toward an ideal (and the second-best
strive sometimes) which, if realised, would make this world a very
different place. I believe myself that it is this instinct alone which
is responsible for religions,--a desire for a concrete form of goodness
to which man can cling when his own little atom is overwhelmed by the
great measure of weakness in him. Do you follow me?"
Magdaléna nodded, but she did not look satisfied.
"Well, this is the point: The world might be prosaic without sin, but it
is right positive that women would suffer less. And if it could be
pounded into every woman's head that she was a fool to think twice about
any man she could not marry, and that she threatened the whole social
structure every time she brought a fatherless child into the world; that
she made possible such creatures as you saw in Dupont Street, and a long
and still more hideous sequelæ, every time she deliberately violated her
own instinct for good,--we'd all begin to develop into what the Almighty
intended us to be when He started us off on our long march. Don't
misunderstand me! Even if I were not such a sinner myself, I'd be deuced
charitable where love was concerned, marriage or no marriage--O Lord! I
didn't mean to say that. Forget it until you're thirty; then remember it
if you like, for your brain is a good one. Look, promise me something,
'Léna;" he leaned forward eagerly and took her hand. "Promise me, swear
it, that until you are thirty you'll never do anything your instincts
and your intelligence don't assure you is right,--really right without
any sophistry. Of course I mean in regard to men. I don't want you to
make yourself into a prig--but I am sure you understand."
"I think I do," said Magdaléna. "I promise."
"Thank goodness, for you'll never break your word. You may be tempted
more than once to kick the whole stupid game of life to the deuce and go
out on a bat like a man, but console yourself with this: you'd be a long
sight worse off when you got through than when you started, and you'd
either go to smash altogether or spend the rest of your life trying to
get back where you were before; and sackcloth hurts. There isn't one bit
of joy to be got out of it. If you can't get the very best in this
world, take nothing. That's the only religion for a woman to cling to,
and if she does cling to it she can do without any other."
Magdaléna rose. "Good-night," she said. "I'll never forget a word of it,
and I'm very much obliged."
She kissed him and had half crossed the room before he sprang to his
feet and went hastily forward to open the door. He went to her father's
house with her, then returned to his library fire. To the surprise of
his servants, he spent the evening quietly at home.
XII
A year from the following June, and two days after her arrival in Menlo,
Magdaléna went into the middle woods. The great oaks were dusty already,
their brilliant greens were dimming: but the depths of the woods were
full of the warm shimmer of summer, of the mysterious noises produced by
creatures never seen, by the very heat itself, perchance by the riotous
sap in the young trees which had sprung to life from the roots of their
mighty parents.
Magdaléna left the driveway and pushed in among the brush. Poison oak
did not affect her; and she separated the beautiful creeper fearlessly
until she reached a spot where she was as sure of being alone and unseen
as if she had entered the bowels of the earth. She sat down on the warm
dry ground and looked about her for a moment, glad in the sense of
absolute freedom. Above the fragrant brush of many greens rose the old
twisted oaks, a light breeze rustling their brittle leaves, their arms
lifted eagerly to the warm yellow bath from above. Near her was a high
pile of branches and leaves, the home of a wood-rat. No sound came from
it, and mortal had nothing to fear from him. A few birds moved among the
leaves, but the heat made them lazy, and they did not sing.
After a few moments, Magdaléna's glance swept the wall of leaves that
surrounded her; then she took a pencil and a roll of foolscap from her
pocket. She had made up her mind that the time had come for her first
essay in fiction. For two years and a half she had studied and thought
to this end; too reverent to criticise, but taking the creators'
structures to pieces as best she could and giving all attention to parts
and details.
She had had a nebulous idea in her mind for some time. It had troubled
her that it did not assume definite form, but she trusted to that
inspiration of the pen of which she had read much.
Her hand trembled so that she could not write for a few moments. She put
the pencil down, not covering her face with her hands as a more
demonstrative girl would have done, but biting her lips. Her heart beat
suffocatingly. For the first time she fully realised what the power to
write would mean to her. Her religion had gone, that dear companion of
many years; she had practised faithfully until six months ago, when she
had asked her teacher to tell her father that she could never become
even a third-rate musician; and Don Roberto had, after a caustic hour,
concluded that he would "throw no more good money after bad;" she had
had long and meaning conferences with her mirror, conjuring up phantasms
of the beautiful dead women of her race, and decided sadly that the
worship of man was not for her. She had never talked for ten consecutive
minutes with a young man; but she had a woman's instincts, she had read,
she had listened to the tales of her aunt, and she knew that what man
most valued in woman she did not possess. Her great position and the
graces she hoped to cultivate might gratify her ambitions in a measure,
but they would not companion her soul. Books were left; but books are
too heterogeneous an interest to furnish a vital one in life, a reason
for being alive. She had read of the jealous absorption of art, of the
intense exclusive love with which it inspired its votaries. She had read
of the joys of creation, and her whole being had responded; she felt
that did her brain obey her will and shape itself to achievement, she
too would know ecstasy and ask nothing more of life.
Her nerves settled, and she began to write. Her reading had been
confined to the classics of the old world: not only had she not read a
modern novel, but of the regnant lights of her own country, Mr. Howells
and Mr. James, she had never heard. She may have seen their names in the
"Literary Bulletin" her bookseller sent her, but had probably gathered
that they were biologists. There was no one to tell her that the actors
and happenings within her horizon were the proper substance for her
creative faculty. California had whispered to her, but she had not
understood. Her intention was to write a story of England in the reigns
of Oliver Cromwell and Charles the Second. The romance of England
appealed to her irresistibly. The mass of virgin ore which lay at her
hand did not provoke a flash of magnetism from her brain.
She wrote very slowly. An hour passed, and she had only covered a page.
Her head ached a little from the intense concentration of mind. Her
fingers were stiff. Finally, she laid her pencil aside and read what she
had written. It was a laboured introduction to the story, an attempt to
give a picture of the times. She was only nineteen and a novice, but she
knew that what she had written was rubbish. It was a trite synopsis of
what she had read, of what everybody knew; and the English, although
correct, was commonplace, the vocabulary cheap. She set her lips, tore
it up, and began again. At the end of another hour she destroyed the
second result.
Then she determined to skip the prologue for the present and begin the
story. For many long moments she sat staring into the brush, her brain
plodding toward an opening scene, an opening sentence. At last she began
to write. She described the hero. He was walking down the great
staircase of a baronial hall,--in which he had lain concealed,--and the
company below were struck dumb with terror and amazement at the
apparition. She got him to the middle of the stair; she described his
costume with fidelity; she wrote of the temper of the people in the
great hall. Then she dropped the pencil. What was to happen thereafter
was a blank.
She read what she had written. It was lifeless. It was not fiction. The
least of Helena's letters was more virile and objective than this.
Again that mysterious indefinable presentiment assailed her. It was the
first time that it had come since that night she had stood on the
balcony and opened her brain to literary desire. Had that presentiment
meant anything since compassed? Her father's cruel treatment? Her
terrible experience in the street of painted women? Her illness? The
loss of her religion? It was none of these things. So far, it had not
been fulfilled; and it had struck its warning note again. She shivered,
then discovered that the yellow light was no longer about her, and that
her head ached. She rose stiffly and put the torn scraps of paper in her
pocket. As she left, she cast a curious glance about her retreat, not
knowing what prompted it. The scent of newly upturned earth came to her
nostrils; a bird flew down on the rat's nest, starting along the sides a
shower of loose earth; the frogs were chanting hoarsely.
XIII
The next morning the natural buoyancy of youth asserted itself; she
reasoned that a long hard apprenticeship had been the lot of many
authors, and determined that she would write a page a day for years, if
need be, until her tardy faculty had been coaxed from its hard soil and
trained to use.
She could not go to the woods that day: her mother expected callers.
"Your birthday is a week from Wednesday," Mrs. Yorba said as they sat on
the verandah. "Your father and I have decided to give a dinner. You will
not come out formally, of course, until winter; but a little society
