stable boy ; no one but a born nobleman could 
be so confident with women and so supercilious 
to men." 
But my lord was little in his thought. It was 
the face of Evelyn that he saw, and the dainty 
little figure ; the warmth of the little hand still 
thrilled him. So simple, and only a bunch of 
violets in her corsage for all ornament ! The 
clear, dark complexion, the sweet mouth, the 
wonderful ej^es ! "What could Jenks mean by in- 
timating that she was plain? 
Philip drifted along with the crowd. He was 
very much alone. And he enjoyed his solitude. 
A word and a smile now and then from an ac- 
quaintance did not tempt him to come out Of 
his seclusion. The gay scene pleased him. He 
looked for a moment into the ball-room. At 
another time he would have tried his fortune in 
the whirl. But now he looked on as at a spec- 
tacle from which he was detached. He had had 
his moment and he waited for another. The 
voluptuous music, the fascinating toilettes, the 
beautiful faces, the graceful forms that were 
woven together in this shifting kaleidoscope, 
were, indeed, a part of his beautiful dream. But 
how unreal they all were ! There was no doubt 
that Evelyn's eyes had kindled for him as for no 
 
one else whom she had greeted. She singled him 
out in all this crush, her look, the cordial press- 
ure of her hand, conveyed the feeling of com- 
radeship and understanding. This was enough 
to fill his thought with foolish anticipations. Is 
there any being quite so happy, quite so stupid, 
as a lover? A lover, who hopes everything and 
fears everything, who goes in an instant from the 
heights of bliss to the depths of despair. 
When the " reception " was over and the com- 
pany was breaking up into groups and moving 
about, Philip again sought Evelyn. But she was 
the centre of a somewhat noisy group, and it 
was not easy to join it. Yet it was something 
that he could feast his eyes on her and was re- 
warded by a look now and then that told him 
she was conscious of his presence. Encouraged 
by this, he was making his way to her, when 
there Avas a movement towards the supper-room, 
and Mrs. Mavick had taken the arm of the Count 
de I'Auney, and the little lord was jauntily lead- 
ing away Evelyn. Philip had a pang of disgust 
and jealousy. Evelyn was actually chatting 
with him and seemed amused. Lord Montague 
was evidently laying himself out to please and 
exerting all the powers of his subtle humor and 
exploiting his newly acquired slang. That Philip 
could hear as they moved past him. " The brute !" 
Philip said to himself, with the injustice which 
 
always clouds the estimate of a lover of a rival 
whose accomplishments differ from his own. 
In the supper-room, however, in the confusion 
and crowding of it, Philip at length found his 
opportunity to get to the side of Evelyn, whose 
smile showed him that he was welcome. It was 
in that fortunate interval when Lord Montague 
was showing that devotion to women was not 
incompatible with careful attention to terrapin 
and champagne. Philip was at once inspired to 
say : 
" How lovely it is ! Aren't you tired ?" 
"Not at all. Everybody is very kind, and 
some are very amusing. I am learning a great 
deal," and there was a quizzical look in her eyes, 
" about the world." 
"Well," said Philip, "it's all here." 
" I suppose so. But do you know," and there 
was quite an ingenuous blush in her cheeks as 
she said it, " it isn't half so nice, Mr. Burnett, as 
a picnic in Zoar." 
" So you remember that ?" Philip had not 
command of himself enough not to attempt the 
sentimental. 
" You must think I have a weak memory," she 
replied, Avith a laugh. "And the story? When 
shall we have it ?" 
" Soon, I hope. And, Miss Mavick, I owe so 
much of it to you that I hope you will let 
 
me send you the very first copy from the 
press." 
" Will you ? And do you — Of course I shall 
be pleased and" (making him a little curtsy) 
" honored, as one ought to say in this company." 
Lord Montague was evidently getting uneasy, 
for his attention was distracted from the occupa- 
tion of feeding. 
" No, don't go. Lord Montague, an old friend, 
Mr. Burnett." 
" Much pleased," said his lordship, looking 
round rather inquiringly at the intruder. "I 
can't say much for the champagne — ah, not bad, 
you know — but I always said that your terrapin 
isn't half so nasty as it looks." And his lordship 
laughed most good-humoredly, as if he were pay- 
ing the American nation a deserved compliment. 
" Yes," said Philip, " we have to depend upon 
France for the champagne, but the terrapin is 
native." 
" Quite so, and devilish good ! That ain't 
bad, 'depend upon France for the champagne!' 
There is nothing like your American humor, 
Miss Mavick." 
" It needs an Englishman to appreciate it," re- 
plied Evelyn, with a twinkle in her eyes which 
was lost upon her guest. 
In the midst of these courtesies Philip bowed 
himself away. The party was over for him, 
 
though he wandered about for a while, was at- 
tracted again by the music to the ball-room, and 
did find there a dinner acquaintance with whom 
he took a turn. The lady must have thought 
him a very uninteresting or a very absent-minded 
companion. 
As for Lord Montague, after he had what he 
called a "go" in the dancing-room, he found his 
way back to the buffet in the supper-room, and 
the historian saj's that he greatly enjoyed him- 
self, and was very amusing, and that he culti- 
vated the friendship of an obliging waiter early 
in the morning, who conducted his lordship to 
his cab. 
CHAPTER XVII 
The morning after The Puritan Nun was 
out, as Philip sat at his ofiBce desk, conscious 
that the eyes of the world were on him, Mr. Ma- 
vick entered, bowed to him absent-mindedly, and 
was shown into Mr. Hunt's room. 
Philip had dreaded to come to the office that 
morning and encounter the inquisition and per- 
haps the compliments of his fellow-clerks. He 
had seen his name in staring capitals in the book- 
seller's window as he came down, and he felt 
that it was shamefully exposed to the public 
gaze, and that everybody had seen it. The 
clerks, however, gave no sign that the event had 
disturbed them. He had encountered many peo- 
ple he knew on the street, but there had been no 
recognition of his leap into notoriety. Not a fel- 
low in the club, where he had stopped a moment, 
had treated him with any increased interest or 
deference. In the office only one person seemed 
aware of his extraordinary good fortune. Mr. 
Tweedle had come to the desk and offeredhis hand 
in his usual conciliatory and unctuous manner. 
" I see by the paper, Mr. Burnett, that we are 
an author. Let me congratulate you. Mrs. 
Tweedle told me not to come home without 
bringing your story. "Who publishes it ?" 
" I shall be much honored," said Philip, blush- 
ing, " if Mrs. Tweedle will accept a copy from 
me." 
"I didn't mean that, Mr. Burnett; but, of 
course, gift of the author — Mrs. Tweedle will be 
very much pleased." 
In half an hour Mr. Mavick came out, passed 
him without recognition, and hurried from the 
office, and Philip was summoned to Mr. Hunt's 
room. 
" I want you to go to "Washington immediate- 
ly, Mr. Burnett. Return by the night train. 
You can do without your grip? Take these 
papers to Buckston Higgins — you see the address 
— who represents the British Argentine syndi- 
cate. Wait till he reads them and get his reply. 
Here is the money for the trip. Oh, after Mr. 
Higgins writes his answer, ask him if you can 
telegraph me ' yes ' or ' no.' Good-morning." 
"While Philip was speeding to "Washington, an 
important conference was taking place in Murad 
Ault's office. He was seated at his desk, and be- 
fore him lay two despatches, one from Chicago 
and a cable from London. Opposite him, lean- 
ing forward in his chair, was a lean, hatchet-faced 
 
man, with keen eyes and aquiline nose, who 
watched his old curb-stone confidant like a cat. 
" I tell you, Wheatstone," said Mr. Ault, with 
an unmoved face, bringing his fist down on 
the table, " now is the time to sell these three 
stocks." 
" "Why," said Mr. Wheatstone, with a look of 
wonder, " they are about the strongest on the 
list. Maviok controls them." 
" Does he ?" said Ault. " Then he can take 
care of them." 
" Have you any news, Mr. Ault ?" 
" Nothing to speak of," replied Ault, grimly. 
" It just looks so to me. All you've got to do is 
to sell. Make a break this afternoon, about two 
or three points off." 
" They are too strong," protested Mr. "Wheat- 
stone. 
" That is just the reason. Everybody will 
think something must be the matter, or nobody 
would be fool enough to sell. You keep your 
eye on the Spectrum this afternoon and to-mor- 
row morning. About Organization and one or 
two other matters." 
" Ah, they do say that Mavick is in Argentine 
up to his neck," said the broker, beginning to be 
enlightened. 
" Is he ? Then you think he would rather seE 
than buy ?" 
 
Mr. Wheatstone laughed and looked admiring- 
I3' at his leader. " He may have to." 
Mr. Ault took up the cable cipher and read it 
to himself again. If Mr. Hunt had known its 
contents he need not have waited for Phihp to 
telegraph " no " from Washington. 
" It's all right, Wheatstone. It's the biggest 
thing you ever struck. Pitch 'em overboard in 
the morning. The Street is shaky about Argen- 
tine. There'll be h — to pay before half past 
twelve. I guess you can safely go ten points. 
Lower yet, if Mavick's brokers begin to unload. 
I guess he will have to — unless he can borrow. 
Rumor is a big thing, especially in a panic, eh ? 
Keep your eye peeled. And, oh, won't you ask 
Babcock to step round here ?" 
Mr. Babcock came round, and had his instruc- 
tions when to buy. He had the reputation of 
being a reckless broker, and not a safe man to 
follow. 
The panic next day, both in London and E"ew 
York, was long remembered. In the unreason- 
ing scare the best stocks were sacrificed. Small 
country " investors " lost their stakes. Some op- 
erators were ruined. Many men were poorer at 
the end of the scrimmage, and a few were richer. 
Murad Ault was one of the latter. Mavick pulled 
through, though at an enormous cost, and with 
some diminution of the notion of his solidity. 
Q 
 
The wise ones suspected that his resources had 
been overestimated, or that they were not so well 
at his command as had been supposed. 
"When he went home that night he looked five 
years older, and was too worn and jaded to be 
civil to his family. The dinner passed mostly in 
silence. Carmen saw that something serious had 
happened. Lord Montague had called. 
" Eh, what did he want ?" said Mavick, surlily. 
Carmen looked up surprised. " What does 
anybody after a reception call for?" 
" The Lord only knows." 
" He is the funniest little man," Evelyn vent- 
ured to say. 
" That is no way, child, to speak of the son of 
a duke," said Mavick, relaxing a little. 
Carmen did not like the tone in which this was 
said, but she prudently kept silent. And pres- 
ently Evelyn continued : 
" He asked for you, papa, and said he wanted 
to pay his respects." 
" I am glad he wants to pay anything," was 
the ungracious answer. Still Evelyn was not to 
be put down. 
" It was such a bright day in the Park. What 
were you doing all day, papa ?" 
" Why, my dear, I was engaged in Eesearch, 
you will be pleased to know. Looking after 
those ten millions." 
 
When the dinner was over, Carmen followed 
Mr. Mavick to his study. 
" What is the matter, Tom ?" 
" Nothing uncommon. It's a beastly hole 
down there. The Board used to be made up of 
gentlemen. Now there are such fellows as Ault, 
a black-hearted scoundrel." 
"But he has no influence. He is nothing 
sociallj''," said Carmen. 
" Neither is a wolf nor a cyclone. But I don't 
care to talk about him. Don't you see, I don't 
want to be bothered ?" 
While these great events were taking place 
Philip was enjoying all the tremors and delights 
of expectation which attend callow authorship. 
He did not expect much, he said to himself, but 
deep down in his heart there was that sweet 
hope, which fortunately always attends young 
writers, that his would be an exceptional experi- 
ence in the shoal of candidates for fame, and he 
was secretly preparing himself not to be sur- 
prised if he should "awake one morning and 
find himself famous." 
The first response was from Celia. She wrote 
warm-heartedly. She wrote at length, analyzing 
the characters, recalling the striking scenes, and 
praising Avithout stint the conception and the 
working out of the character of the heroine. 
She pointed out the little faults of construction 
 
and of language, and then minimized them in 
comparison with the noble motive and the unity 
and beauty of the whole. She told Philip that 
she was proud of him, and then insisted that, 
when his biography, life, and letters was pub- 
lished, it would appear, she hoped, that his dear 
friend had just a little to do with inspiring him. 
It was exactly the sort of letter an author likes 
to receive, critical, perfectly impartial, and with 
entire understanding of his purpose. All the au- 
thor wants is to be understood. 
The letter from Alice was quite of another 
sort, a little shy in speaking of the story, but 
full of affection. "Perhaps, dear Phil," she 
wrote, "I ought not to tell you how much I 
like it, how it quite makes me blush in its reve- 
lation of the secrets of a New England girl's 
heart. I read it through fast, and then I read 
it again slowly. It seemed better even the sec- 
ond time. I do think, Phil, it is a dear little 
book. Patience says she hopes it will not be- 
come common ; it is too fine to be nosed about 
by the ordinary. I suppose you had to make it 
pathetic. Dear me ! that is just the truth of it. 
Forgive me for writing so freely. I hope it will 
not be long before we see you. To think it is 
done by little Phil !" 
The most eagerly expected acknowledgment 
was, however, a disappointment. Philip knew 
 
Mrs. Mavick too well by this time to expect a 
letter from her daughter, but there might have 
been a line. But Mrs. Mavick wrote herself. 
Her daughter, she said, had asked her to ac- 
knowledge the receipt of his very charming 
story. When he had so many friends it was 
very thoughtful in him to remember the ac- 
quaintances of last summer. She hoped the 
book would have the success it deserved. 
This polite note was felt to be a slap in the 
face, but the effect of it was softened a little 
later by a cordial and appreciative letter from 
Miss McDonald, telling the author what great 
delight and satisfaction they had had in reading 
it, and thanking him for a prose idyl that showed 
in the old-fashioned way that common life was 
not necessarily vulgar. 
The critics seemed to Philip very slow in let- 
ting the pubhc know of the birth of the book. 
Presently, however, the little notices, all very 
much alike, began to drop along, longer or 
shorter paragraphs, commonly in undiscriminat- 
ing praise of the beauty of the story, the ma- 
jority of them evidently written by reviewers 
Avho sat down to a pile of volumes to be turned 
off, and who had not more than five or ten min- 
utes to be lost. Earely, however, did any one 
condemn it, and that showed that it was harm- 
less. Mr. Brad had given it quite a lift in the 
 
Spectrum. The notice was mainly personal — the 
first work of a brilliant young man at the bar 
who was destined to go high in his profession, 
unless literature should, fortunately for the pub- 
lic, have stronger attractions for him. That such 
a country idyl should be born amid law-books 
was sufficiently remarkable. It was an open 
secret that the scene of the story was the birth- 
place of the author — a lovely village that was 
brought into notice a summer ago as the chosen 
residence of Thomas Mavick and his family. 
Eagerly looked for at first, the newspaper 
notices soon palled upon Philip, the uniform 
tone of good-natured praise, unanimous in the 
extravagance of unmeaning adjectives. Now 
and then he welcomed one that was ill-natured 
and cruelly censorious. That was a relief. And 
yet there were some reviews of a different sort, 
half a dozen in all, and half of them from "West- 
ern journals, which took the book seriously, saw 
its pathos, its artistic merit, its failure of con- 
struction through inexperience. A few com- 
mended it warmly to readers who loved ideal 
purity and could recognize the noble in common 
life. And some, whom Philip regarded as au- 
thorities, welcomed a writer who avoided sen- 
sationalism, and predicted for him an honorable 
career in letters, if he did not become self-con- 
scious and remained true to his ideals. 
 
The book clearly had not made a hit, the pub- 
lishers had sold one edition and ordered half 
another, and no longer regarded the author as a 
risk. But, better than this, the book had at- 
tracted the attention of many lovers of litera- 
ture. Philip was surprised day after day by 
meeting people who had read it. His name 
began to be known in a small circle who are in- 
terested in the business, and it was not long be- 
fore he had offers from editors, who were always 
on the lookout for new writers of promise, to 
send something for their magazines. And, per- 
haps more flattering than all, he began to have 
society invitations to dine, and professional invi- 
tations to those little breakfasts that publishers 
give to old writers and to young whose names 
are beginning to be spoken of. All this was very 
exhilarating and encouraging. And yet Philip 
was not allowed to be unduly elated by the at- 
tention of his fellow -craftsmen, for he soon 
found that a man's consequence in this circle, 
as well as with the great public, depended large- 
ly upon the amount of the sale of his book. 
How else should it be rated, when a very pop- 
ular author, by whom Philip sat one day at 
luncheon, confessed that he never read books ? 
" So," said Mr. Sharp, one morning, " I see you 
have gone into literature, Mr. Burnett." 
 
" Not very deep," replied Philip with a smile, 
as he rose from his desk. 
" Going to drop law, eh ?" 
" I haven't had occasion to drop much of any- 
thing yet," said Philip, still smiling. 
" Oh well, two masters, you know," and Mr. 
Sharp passed on to his room. 
It was not, however, Mr. Sharp's opinion that 
Philip was concerned about. The polite note 
from Mrs. Mavick stuck in his mind. It was a 
civil way of telling him that all summer debts 
were now paid, and that his relations with the 
house of Mavick were at an end. This conclu- 
sion was forced upon him when he left his card, 
a few days after the reception, and had the ill 
luck not to find the ladies at home. The situa- 
tion had no element of tragedy in it, but Philip 
was powerless. He could not storm the house. 
He had no visible grievance. There was nothing 
to fight. He had simply run against one of the 
invisible social barriers that neither offer resist- 
ance nor yield. No one had shown him any dis- 
courtesy that society would recognize as a matter 
of offence. Nay, more than that, it could have 
no sympathy with him. It was only tiie case of 
a presumptuous and poor young man who was 
after a rich girl. The position itself was ignoble, 
if it were disclosed. 
Yet fortune, which sometimes likes to play the 
mischief with the best social arrangements, did 
give Philip an unlooked-for chance. At a din- 
ner given by the lady who had been Philip's 
only partner at the Mavick reception, and who 
had read his story and had written to "her 
partner" a most kind little note regretting that 
she had not known she was dancing with an 
author, and saying that she and her husband 
would be delighted to make his acquaintance, 
Philip was surprised by the presence of the 
Mavicks in the drawing-room. Neither Mr. nor 
Mrs. Mavick seemed especially pleased when they 
encountered him, and in fact his sole welcome 
from the family was in the eyes of Evelyn. The 
hostess had supposed that the Mavicks would be 
pleased to meet the rising author, and in still 
further carrying out her benevolent purpose, and 
with, no doubt, a sympathy in the feelings of the 
young, Mrs. Van Cortlandt had assigned Miss 
Mavick to Mr. Burnett. It was certainly a nat- 
ural arrangement, and yet it called a blank look 
to Mrs. Mavick's face, that Philip saw, and put 
her in a bad humor which needed an effort for her 
to conceal it fromMr.Yan Cortlandt. The dinner- 
party was large, and her ill-temper was not as- 
suaged by the fact that the young people were 
seated at a distance from her and on the same 
side of the table. 
" How charnaing your daughter is looking, 
 
Mrs. Mavick!" Mr. Yan Cortlandt began, by way 
of being agreeable. Mrs. Mavick inclined her 
head. " That young Burnett seems to be a nice 
sort of chap ; Mrs. Yan Cortlandt says he is very 
clever." 
"Yes?" 
" I haven't read his book. They say he is a 
lawyer." 
" Lawyer's clerk, I believe," said Mrs. Mavick, 
indifferently. " Authors are pretty plenty now- 
adays." 
" That's a fact. Everybody writes. I don't 
see how all the poor devils live." Mr. Yan Cort- 
landt had now caught the proper tone, and the 
conversation drifted away from personalities. 
It was a very brilliant dinner, but Philip could 
not have given much account of it. He made an 
effort to be civil to his left-hand neighbor, and 
he affected an ease in replying to cross-table re- 
marks. He fancied that he carried himself very 
well, and so he did for a man unexpectedly ele- 
vated to the seventh heaven, seated for two 
hours beside the girl whose near presence filled 
him with indescribable happiness. Every look, 
every tone of her voice thrilled him. How dear 
she was ! how adorable she was ! How radiantly 
happy she seemed to be whenever she turned 
her face towards him to ask a question or to 
make a reply ! 
 
At moments his passion seemed so overmaster- 
ing that he could hardly restrain himself from 
whispering, " Evelyn, love you." In a hun- 
dred ways he was telling her so. And she must 
understand. She must know that this was not 
an affair of the moment, but that there was con- 
densed in it all the constant devotion of months 
and months. A woman, even any girl with the 
least social experience, would have seen this. 
Was Evelyn's sympathetic attention, her evident 
enjoyment in talking Avith him, any evidence of 
a personal interest, or only a young girl's enjo}''- 
ment of her new position in the world? That 
she liked him he was sure. Did she, was she be- 
ginning in any degree to return his passion ? He 
could not tell, for guilelessness in a woman is as 
impenetrable as coquetry. 
Of what did they talk ? A stenographer would 
have made a meagre report of it, for the most 
significant part of this conversation of two fresh, 
honest natures was not in words. One thing, 
however, Philip could bring away with him that 
was not a mere haze of delicious impressions. 
She had been longing, she said, to talk to him 
about his story. She told him how eagerly she 
had read it, and in talking about its meaning she 
revealed to him her inner thought more complete- 
ly than she could have done in any other way, her 
sympathy with his mind, her interest in his work. 
 
" Have you begun another ?" she asked, at 
last. 
'ISTo, not on paper." 
" But you must. It must be such a world to 
you. I can't imagine anything so fine as that. 
There is so much about life to be said. To make 
people see it as it is ; yes, and as it ought to be. 
Will you?" 
" You forget that I am a la^^yer." 
" And you prefer to be that, a lawyer rather 
than an author?" 
" It is not exactly what I prefer. Miss Mavick." 
" Why not ? Does anybody do anything well 
if his heart is not in it ?" 
" But circumstances sometimes compel a man." 
" I like better for men to compel circum- 
stances," the girl exclaimed, with that disposition 
to look at things in the abstract that Philip so 
well remembered. 
" Perhaps I do not make myself understood. 
One must have a career." 
" A career?" And Evelyn looked puzzled for 
a moment. " You mean for himself, for his own 
self ? There is a lawyer who comes to see papa. 
I've been in the room sometimes, when they 
didn't mind. Such talk about schemes, and how 
to do this and that, and twisting about. And 
not a word about anything, any of the time. 
And one day when he was waiting for papa I 
 
talked with him. You would have been sur- 
prised. I told papa that I could not find any- 
thing to interest him. Papa laughed and said it 
was my fault, he was one of the sharpest law- 
yers in the city. "Would you rather be tliat than 
to write ?" 
" Oh, all lawyers are not like that. And, don't 
you know, literature doesn't pay." 
"Yes, I have heard that." And then she 
thought a minute and with a quizzical look con- 
tinued : "That is such a queer word, 'pay.' 
McDonald says that it pays to be good. Do you 
think, Mr. Burnett, that law would pay you 1" 
Evidently the girl had a standard of judging 
people that was not much in use. 
Before they rose from the table Philip asked, 
speaking low, " Miss Mavick, won't you give me 
a violet from your bunch in memory of this 
evening ?" 
Evelyn hesitated an instant, and then, without 
looking up, disengaged three, and shyly laid them 
at her left hand. " I like the number three better." 
Philip covered the flowers with his hand, and 
said, " I will keep them always." 
"That is a long time," Evelyn answered, but 
still without looking up. But when they rose 
the color mounted to her cheeks, and Philip 
thought that the glorious eyes turned upon him 
were full of trust. 
 
" It is all your doing," said Carmen, snappish- 
ly, when Mavick joined her in the drawing-room. 
" What is ?" 
" You insisted upon having him at the recep- 
tion." 
« Burnett ? Oh, stuff, he isn't a fool !" 
There was not much said as the three drove 
home. Evelyn, flushed with pleasure and ab- 
sorbed in her own thoughts, saw that something 
had gone wrong with her mother and kept silent. 
Mr. Mavick at length broke the silence with : 
" Did you have a good time, child ?" 
" Oh yes," replied Evelyn, cheerfully, " and 
Mrs. Van Cortlandt was very sweet to me. Don't 
you think she is very hospitable, mamma ?" 
"Tries to be," Mrs. Mavick replied, in no cordial 
tone. " Good-natured and eccentric. She picks 
up the queerest lot of people. You can never 
know whom you will not meet at her house. 
Just now she goes in for being literary." 
Evelyn was not so reticent with McDonald. 
While she was undressing she disclosed that she 
had had a beautiful evening, that she was taken 
out by Mr. Burnett, and talked about his story. 
"And, do you know, I think I almost per- 
suaded him to write another." 
" It's an awful responsibility," dryly said the 
shrewd Scotch woman, "advising young men 
what to do." 
CHAPTER XVIII 
Upon the recollection of this dinner Philip 
maintained his hope and courage for a long time. 
The day after it New York seemed more brilliant 
to him than it had ever been. In the afternoon 
he rode down to the Battery. It was a mild 
winter day, with a haze in the atmosphere that 
softened all outlines and gave an enchanting ap- 
pearance to the harbor shores. The water was 
silvery, and he watched a long time the craft 
plying on it — the business-like ferry-boats, the 
spiteful tugs, the great ocean steamers, boldly 
pushing out upon the Atlantic through the Nar- 
rows or cautiously drawing in as if weary with 
the buffeting of the waves. The scene kindled 
in him a vigorous sense of life, of prosperity, of 
longing for the activity of the great world. 
Clearly he must do something and not be mop- 
ing in indecision. Uncertainty is harder to bear 
than disaster itself. When he thought of Eve- 
lyn, and he always thought of her, it seemed 
cowardly to hesitate. Celia, after her first out- 
burst of enthusiasm, had returned to her cautious 
 
advice. The law was much surer. Literature 
was a mere chance. Why not be content with 
his httle success and buckle down to his profes- 
sion ? Perhaps by-and-by he would have leisure 
to indulge his inclination. The advice seemed 
sound. 
But there was Evelyn, with her innocent ques- 
tion, "Would the law pay you?" Evelyn? 
Would he be more likely to win her by obeying 
the advice of Celia, or by trusting to Evelyn's in- 
experienced discernment ? Indeed, what chance 
was there to win her at all ? What had he to 
offer her ? 
His spirits invariably fell when he thought of 
submitting his pretensions to the great man of 
Wall Street or to his worldly wife. Already it 
was the gossip of the clubs that Lord Hontague 
was a frequent visitor at the Mavicks', that he 
Avas often seen in their box at the opera, and 
that Mrs. Mavick had said to Bob Shafter that 
it was a scandal to talk of Lord Montague as a 
fortune-hunter. He was a most kind-hearted, 
domestic man. She should not join in the news- 
paper talk about him. He belonged to an old 
English family, and she should be civil to him. 
Generally she did not fancy Englishmen, and 
this one she liked neither better nor worse be- 
cause he had a title. And when you came to 
that, why shouldn't any American girl marry 
 
her equal ? As to Montague, he was her friend, 
and she knew that he had not the least intention 
at present of marrying anybody. And then the 
uncharitable gossip went on, that there was the 
Count de I'Auney, and that Mrs. Mavick was 
plajnng the one off against the other. 
As the daj's went on and spring began to ap- 
pear in the light, fleeting clouds in the blue sky 
and in the greening foliage in the city squares, 
Philip became more and more restless. The sit- 
uation Avas intolerable. Evelyn he could never 
see. Perhaps she wondered that he made no 
effort to see her. Perhaps she never thought of 
him at all, and simply, like an obedient child, 
accepted her mother's leading, and was getting 
to like that society life which was recorded in 
the daily journals. What did it matter to him 
whether he stuck to the law or launched himself 
into the Bohemia of literature, so long as doubt 
about Evelyn haunted him day and night? If 
she was indifferent to him, he would know the 
worst, and go about his business like a man. 
"Who were the Mavicks, anyway ? 
Alice had written him once that Evelyn was a 
dear girl, no one could help loving her ; but she 
did not like the blood of father and mother. 
" And remember, Phil — you must let me say this 
— there is not a drop of mean blood in your an- 
cestors." 
K 
 
Philip smiled at this. He was not in love with 
Mrs. Mavick nor with her husband. They were 
for him simply guardians of a treasure he very 
much coveted, and yet they were to a certain 
extent ennobled in his mind as the authors of 
the being he worshipped. If it should be true 
that his love for her was returned, it would not 
be possible even for them to insist upon a course 
that would make their daughter unhappy for 
life. They might reject him — no doubt he was 
a wholly unequal match for the heiress — but 
could they, to the very end, be cruel to her? 
Thus the ingenuous young man argued with 
himself, until it seemed plain to him that if 
Evelyn loved him, and the conviction grew that 
she did, all obstacles must give way to this over- 
mastering passion of his life. If he were living 
in a fool's paradise he would know it, and he 
ventured to put his fortune to the test of experi- 
ment. The only manly course was to gain the 
consent of the parents to ask their daughter to 
marry him ; if not that, then to be permitted to 
see her. He was nobly resolved to pledge him- 
self to make no proposals to her without their 
approval. 
This seemed a very easy thing to do until he 
attempted it. He would simply happen into Mr. 
Mavick's office, and, as Mr. Mavick frequently 
talked familiarly with him, he would contrive to 
lead the conversation to Evelyn, and make his 
confession. lie mapped out the whole conversa- 
tion, and even to the manner in which he would 
represent his own prospects and ambitions and 
his hopes of happiness. Of course Mr. Mavick 
would evade, and say that it would be a long 
time before they should think of disposing of 
their daughter's hand, and that — well, he must 
see himself that he was in no position to support 
a wife accustomed to luxury ; in short, that one 
could not create situations in real life as he could 
in novels, that personally he could give him no 
encouragement, but that he would consult his 
wife. 
This dream got no further than a private re- 
hearsal. When he called at Mr. Mavick's oflBce 
he learned that Mr. Mavick had gone to the 
Pacific coast, and that he Avould probably be ab- 
sent several weeks. But Philip could not wait. 
He resolved to end his torture by a bold stroke. 
He wrote to Mrs. Mavick, saying that he had 
called at Mr. Mavick's office, and, not finding him 
at home, he begged that she would give him an 
interview concerning a matter of the deepest 
personal interest to himself. 
Mrs. Mavick understood in an instant what 
this meant. She had feared it. Her first im- 
pulse was to write him a curt note of a charac- 
ter that would end at once all intercourse. On 
 
second thought she determined to see him, to 
discover how far the affair had gone, and to have 
it out with him once for all. She accordingly 
wrote that she would have a few minutes at 
half past five the next day. 
As Philip went up the steps of the Mavick 
house at the appointed hour, he met coming out 
of the door— and it seemed a bad omen — Lord 
Montague, who seemed in high spirits, stared at 
Philip without repognition, whistled for his cab, 
and drove away. 
Mrs. Mavick received him politely, and, with- 
out offering her hand, asked him to be seated. 
Philip was horribly embarrassed. The woman 
was so cool, so civil, so perfectly indifferent. 
He stammered out something about the weather 
and the coming spring, and made an allusion to 
the dinner at Mrs. Van Cortlandt's. Mrs. Mavick 
was not in the mood to help him with any gen- 
eral conversation, and presently said, looking at 
her watch : 
" You wrote me that you wanted to con- 
sult me. Is there anything I can do for 
you ?" 
" It was a personal matter," said Philip, get- 
ting control of himself. 
" So you wrote. Mr. Mavick is away, and if it 
is in regard to anything in your office, any pro- 
motion, you know, I don't understand anything 
 
about business." And Mrs. Mavick smiled gra- 
ciously. 
" No, it is not about the office. I should not 
think of troubling my friends in that way. It is 
just that — " 
" Oh, I see," Mrs. Mavick interrupted, with 
good-humor, " it's about the novel. I hear that 
it has sold very well. And you are not certain 
whether its success will warrant your giving up 
your clerkship. Now as for me," and she leaned 
back in her chair, with the air of weighing the 
chances in her mind, " it doesn't seem to me 
that a writer — " 
" JSTo, it is not that," said Philip, leaning for- 
ward and looking her full in the face with all 
the courage he could summon, " it is your daugh- 
ter." 
" "What !" cried Mrs. Mavick, in a tone of in- 
credulous surprise. 
" I was afraid you would think me very pre- 
sumptuous." 
"Presumptuous! Why, she is a child. Do 
you know what you are talking about?" 
" My mother married at eighteen," said Philip, 
gently. 
"That is an interesting piece of information, 
but I don't see its bearing. "Will you tell me, 
Mr. Burnett, what nonsense you have got into 
your head ?" 
 
" I want," and Philip spoke very gently — " I 
want, Mrs. Mavick, permission to see your daugh- 
ter." 
"Ah! I thought in Rivervale, Mr. Burnett, 
that you were a gentleman. You presume upon 
my invitation to this house, in an underhand 
way, to — "What right have you ?" 
Mrs. Mavick was so beside herself that she 
could hardly speak. The lines in her face deep- 
ened into wrinkles and scowls. There was some- 
thing malevolent and mean in it. Philip was 
astonished at the transformation. And she 
looked old and ugly in her passion. 
" You !" she repeated. 
"It is only this, Mrs. Mavick," and Philip 
spoke calmly, though his blood was boiling at 
her insulting manner — " it is only this — I love 
your daughter." 
" And you have told her this ?" 
" No, never, never a word." 
" Does she know anything of this absurd, this 
silly attempt ?" 
" I am afraid not." 
" Ah ! Then you have spared yourself one 
humiliation. My daughter's affections are not 
likely to be placed where her parents do not ap- 
prove. Her mother is her only confidante. I 
can tell you, Mr. Burnett, and when you are 
over this delusion you will thank me for being 
 
so plain with you, my daughter would laugh at 
the idea of such a proposal. But I will not have 
her annoyed by impecunious aspirants." 
"Madam !" cried Philip, rising, with a flushed 
face, and then he remembered that he was talk- 
ing to Evelyn's mother, and uttered no other 
word. 
"This is ended." And then, with a slight 
change of manner, she went on : " You must see 
how impossible it is. You are a man of honor. 
I should like to think well of you. I shall trust 
to your honor that you will never try, by letter 
or otherwise, to hold any communication with 
her." 
" I shall obey you," said Philip, quite stiffly, 
" because you are her mother. But I love her, 
and I shall always love her." 
Mrs. Mavick did not condescend to any reply 
to this, but she made a cold bow of dismissal and 
turned away from him. He left the house and 
walked away, scarcely knowing in Avhich direc- 
tion he went, anger for a time being uppermost 
in his mind, chagrin and defeat following, and 
with it the confused feeling of a man who has 
passed through a cyclone and been landed some- 
where amid the scattered remnants of his posses- 
sions. 
As he strode away he was intensely humili- 
ated. He had been treated like an inferior. He 
 
had voluntarily put himself in a position to be 
insulted. Contempt had been poured upon him, 
his feelings had been outraged, and there was no 
