All this happened in open view of the house and of the public road. Mr.
Sprague was so intent upon his plan of punishing Philip that he did not
notice the approach of two men walking with unsteady steps along the
highway and now close at hand. They were the two men who had talked with
Philip in front of the drinking saloon. They had been drinking, but had
not reached the stage of helplessness.
"I say, Joe," said one, looking towards Nahum Sprague's house, "there's
where old Sprague lives."
"He's a mean rascal," hiccoughed the other. "I'd like to thrash him."
"There's the kid--the one he sent to buy some drink. And there's old
Sprague with a whip in his hand. I'll be dog-goned if he ain't goin' to
lick him. It's a beastly shame. I say, suppose we take a hand."
"All right, Bill."
Meanwhile Nahum Sprague, quite unaware that he was likely to be
interfered with, took the whip from the hand of his son. He looked at
Philip very much as a cat looks at a mouse whom she is preparing to
swallow.
"Now you're going to catch it," he announced, with a cruel gleam in his
eyes. "Now you're going to see what you get for spilling my whisky. I'll
learn you!"
"Oh, please don't whip me, Mr. Sprague!" pleaded Philip. "Indeed. I
didn't mean to break the bottle."
[Illustration: "Nahum brought the whip down with a swish on Philip's
legs."--Page 285.
Mark Mason's Victory.]
"That's too thin! You didn't want to go for the whisky in the first
place. You said your papa," with a mocking sneer, "didn't like to
have you go to a saloon."
"That's true, but I went."
"Because you had to. You are lazy and put on airs, just as if you wasn't
a beggar dependent on me for the bread you eat and the clothes you
wear."
"My father bought me these clothes," said Philip.
"Suppose he did? When you have worn them out you'll expect me to buy you
some more."
"What are you waiting for, pa?" asked Oscar impatiently. "If you're
going to lick him, why don't you do it?"
"I'm going to," said Nahum, and, raising the whip he brought it down
with a swish around the legs of the poor boy.
Philip cried with pain, dancing up and down, and Oscar went into a fit
of laughter at what he thought an amusing spectacle.
"That's the talk, dad!" exclaimed Oscar. "You gave it to him good. Give
it to him again."
"I mean to," said Nahum grimly, and he raised the whip a second time.
"Say, Joe, are we going to stand this?" asked Bill.
"Not by a long shot! Follow me, pard."
Mr. Sprague's back was turned to the street, and he did not see the
quick approach of the two miners. He was just about to bring down the
whip again upon poor defenseless Philip when he thought he was struck by
a cyclone.
Bill seized him by the collar, while Joe snatched the whip from his
hand.
"Why, why, what's all this?" asked the astonished man in dismay.
"Two can play at your little game," answered Joe. "You can stand it
better than the kid," and he lashed the unfortunate Nahum across the
legs just as Philip had suffered a short time before.
"Stop, stop!" yelled Nahum, who was a coward at heart. "What do you
mean? I'll have the law of you."
"That's what you were doing to the kid. I'll give you a dose of your own
medicine," and Mr. Sprague received a second stroke.
"Give me the whip, Joe!" cried Bill. "Give me a chance at him! Don't
keep all the fun to yourself."
"All right! Here it is."
Bill used the whip quite as effectively as his friend Joe.
"You stop licking my pa!" exclaimed Oscar, not daring, however, to
approach the scene of conflict.
"I say, kid, what was he licking you for?" asked Bill after the first
blow.
"He said I broke the bottle and spilled the whisky."
"And did you?"
"Yes, but Oscar pushed me and made me do it."
"Who's Oscar?"
"That boy there."
"Oho! so he's to blame for it."
"It's a lie!" retorted Oscar.
"It isn't. I know the kid's telling the truth. He deserves a dose, too.
Bring him here, Joe."
Joe advanced upon Oscar, and after a short chase seized him by the
collar, and brought him up to the self-appointed dispenser of justice.
"Hold him tight, Joe!"
Then Oscar felt the whip lash coiling around his legs.
"You quit that!" he howled in anger and dismay.
"One more will do you good. You're bigger than the kid and you can stand
it better."
A second time the lash descended with even greater force, and Oscar
jumped and danced as Philip had done before him, but somehow it didn't
seem to impress him as so funny.
"You'd better give the old man more and then we'll let him go," said
Joe.
"I'll have you arrested!" shrieked Nahum Sprague, but in spite of his
threat he received another dose of the same medicine.
"When you want some more call on us!" said Bill.
As he spoke he flung the whip out into the street, and the two ministers
of justice went off laughing.
"If they try to lick you again, kid, come and tell us," Joe called
back.
CHAPTER XXXI.
PHILIP FINDS A FRIEND.
WHEN the two unauthorized ministers of justice had departed Oscar and
his father looked at each other in anger and stupefaction.
"It's an outrage!" exclaimed Nahum Sprague.
"I'd like to shoot them!" returned Oscar. "I'd like to see them flayed
within an inch of their lives."
"So would I. They are the most audacious desperadoes I ever
encountered."
"Do you know them, dad?"
"Yes; they are Bill Murphy and Joe Hastings. They are always hanging
round the drinking saloon."
"We can lick Philip at any rate!" said Oscar, with a furious look at
poor Phil. "He brought it on us."
But Nahum Sprague was more prudent. He had heard the threat of Bill and
Joe to repeat the punishment if Philip were attacked, and he thought it
best to wait.
"Leave it to me," he said. "I'll flog him in due time."
"Ain't you going to do anything to him, dad?" asked Oscar in
disappointment.
"Yes. Come here, you, sir!"
Phil approached his stern guardian with an uncomfortable sense of
something unpleasant awaiting him.
Nahum Sprague seized him by the collar and said, "Follow me."
He pushed the boy before him and walked him into the house, then up the
stairs into an attic room, where he locked him in. Just then the bell
rang for dinner.
Poor Phil was hungry, but nothing was said about dinner for him. A dread
suspicion came to him that he was to be starved. But half an hour later
the door opened, and Oscar appeared with two thin slices of bread
without butter.
"Here's your dinner," he said.
It was a poor enough provision for a hungry boy, but Phil ate them with
relish, Oscar looking on with an amused smile.
"Is that all I am to have?" asked Phil.
"Yes; it is all you deserve."
"I don't know what I have done."
"You don't, hey? You broke the bottle and spilled the whisky."
"I wouldn't have done it if you hadn't pushed me."
"There you go, laying it off on me. You'd better not."
"But it's true, Oscar."
"No, it isn't. You broke the bottle to spite pa."
"I wouldn't have dared to do it," said Philip.
"You dared a little too much, anyway. Didn't you get those men to follow
you and interfere with what was none of their business?"
"No, I didn't."
"Hadn't you spoken with them at the saloon?"
"Yes."
"I thought so."
"They asked me who sent me for the whisky and I told them."
"You didn't need to tell them. If it hadn't been for that they wouldn't
have come round to our place and assaulted pa and me. They'll catch it,
pa says. Shouldn't wonder if they'd be put in prison for five years."
Young as he was Phil put no faith in this ridiculous statement, but he
thought it best not to make any comment.
"How long is your father going to keep me here?" he asked.
"Maybe a month."
This opened a terrible prospect to poor Phil, who thought Mr. Sprague
quite capable of inflicting such a severe punishment.
"If he does I won't live through it," he said desperately.
"You don't mean to kill yourself?" said Oscar, startled.
"No, but I shall starve. I am awfully hungry now."
"What, after eating two slices of bread?"
"They were very thin, and I have exercised a good deal."
"Then I advise you to make it up with pa. If you get down on your knees
and tell him you are sorry, perhaps he will forgive you, and let you
out."
Phil did not feel willing to humiliate himself in that way, and remained
silent.
"There ain't any bed for me to sleep on," he said, looking around.
"You will have to sleep on the floor. I guess you'll get enough of it."
Oscar locked the door on the outside and went down-stairs. Disagreeable
as he was Phil was sorry to have him go. He was some company, and when
left to himself there was nothing for him to do. If there had been any
paper or book in the room it would have helped him tide over the time,
but the apartment was bare of furniture.
There was one window looking out on the side of the house. Phil posted
himself at this, and soon saw Oscar and his father leave the premises
and go down the street. Nahum had a bottle in his hand, and Phil
concluded he was going to the drinking saloon to get a fresh bottle of
whisky.
Phil continued to look out of the window.
Presently he saw a boy pass whom he knew--a boy named Arthur Burks.
He opened the window and called out eagerly, "Arthur!"
Arthur turned round and looking up espied Philip.
"Hello!" he cried. "What are you doing up there?"
"I am locked in."
"What for?"
"I accidentally dropped a bottle of whisky, and spilled it. Mr. Sprague
got mad and locked me up here."
"That's a shame. How long have you got to stay?"
"Oscar says he may keep me here a month."
"He's only frightening you. Old Sprague wouldn't dare to do it."
"That isn't all. I am half starved. He only gave me two small slices of
bread for dinner."
"He's a mean old hunks. I just wish you could come round to our house.
We'd give you enough to eat."
"I wish I were there now," sighed Philip.
"I've got an idea," said Arthur, brightening up. "What time do Mr.
Sprague and Oscar go to bed?"
"Very early. About nine o'clock."
"Would you run away if you could?"
"Yes."
"Then I'll tell you what I'll do. At half-past nine Albert Frost and I
will come around with a tall ladder--Mr. Frost has got one--and we'll
put it up against your window. Will you dare to get out of the window,
and come down?"
"Yes, I'll do anything to get away. But can you get the ladder?"
"Yes; Albert will manage it. Do you think the old man will be likely to
see or hear us?"
"No; he sleeps on the other side of the house."
"All right! You can expect us. I guess I had better go now, for fear I
may be seen, and they might suspect something."
"But where can I go when I leave here?"
"Come to our house. You can sleep with Rob, my little brother."
"Thank you, Arthur. I'll expect you."
Philip felt a good deal more cheerful after Arthur had gone. He knew
that in Arthur's house he would be very differently treated from what he
had been by Nahum Sprague. He did not feel it wrong to leave the
Spragues', as they were constantly complaining that he was a burden.
"If Mr. Burks would only let me live with him," he thought, "I should be
happy, and I would be willing to work hard."
At half-past five Oscar came up to the room again, this time accompanied
by his father.
"How do you like being locked up here?" asked Nahum.
"Not very well."
"Get down on your knees and beg my pardon for your bad conduct, and I
will let you out."
"I would rather not, sir."
"Do you hear that, Oscar? He would rather not."
"I heard it, pa."
"It is only right that he should suffer the penalty of his headstrong
conduct. Give him his supper and we will leave him to think of his
sinfulness."
Oscar produced two more thin slices of bread and a cup of very weak
tea.
"You are not entitled to tea," said Nahum. "It is only because we are
kind-hearted that I permitted Mrs. Sprague to send up a cup. I have not
put in milk or sugar because I refuse to pamper you."
Philip made no comment, but disposed of the tea and bread in a very
short space of time. He felt ready to join in with Oliver, in Dickens's
immortal story, when he asked for "more." But he knew it would be of no
use.
"Now, we will go down, Oscar."
"All right, pa. I hope the house won't catch fire in the night," he
added, with the laudable purpose of terrifying Philip, "for we might not
be able to come up and unlock the door."
Philip felt uncomfortable, but he reflected that before many hours, if
Arthur Burks kept his promise, he would no longer be an inmate of Mr.
Sprague's home.
"He'll have a sweet time sleeping on the floor, pa," said Oscar as they
went down-stairs.
"It will serve the little fool right," returned Nahum Sprague grimly.
CHAPTER XXXII.
NAHUM SPRAGUE'S SURPRISE.
PHILIP waited impatiently from supper-time till half-past nine o'clock.
Fortunately Mr. Sprague and Oscar went to bed rather earlier than usual.
On account of Philip's being locked up some of the "chores" which he had
been accustomed to do fell to the father and son. So it happened that
when it was twenty minutes to eight Mr. Sprague said: "I feel sleepy. I
think I shall turn in now."
"I am sleepy too, pa," said Oscar. "I wonder how Philip feels."
"You can sleep with him if you want to," said Mr. Sprague jocosely.
"Thank you, dad. You're very kind, but I don't care to sleep on the
floor. I guess the young beggar will feel pretty sore in the morning."
"It's his own fault," said Nahum grimly.
"All the same you'd better let him out to-morrow. I don't care about
doing his chores right along."
"I'll see about that. Whenever he will get down on his knees and beg my
pardon he can go free."
By nine o'clock Mr. and Mrs. Sprague and Oscar were in bed, and by
half-past nine all were fast asleep. The whole family were good
sleepers, and it may be added for the senior Sprague that he was a good
snorer also.
Philip posted himself at the window. About five minutes after the time
agreed upon he saw in the moonlight his two boy friends approaching,
bearing between them a long ladder.
His heart leaped within him. They had not forgotten him after all.
He stood at the open window and waved his hand.
"There he is, Albert!" said Arthur Burks. "I guess he's glad to see us.
We'll soon have him out of there."
The two boys came under the window and called up softly:
"Has old Sprague gone to bed?"
"Yes," answered Phil. "I hear him snoring."
"I hope they are all fast asleep," said Albert. "Here, Arthur, you just
hold on to the ladder while I raise it."
"Do you think it is tall enough?" asked Arthur.
"I'll risk it."
The two boys worked till they had the ladder raised and leaning against
the window.
"Will you dare to get out of the window and get down?" asked Arthur.
"I guess so."
"Be very careful. You don't want to fall."
Cautiously Phil put out one leg and placed his foot on one rung of the
ladder. Then clutching firm hold of the side he put out the other, and
now he had both feet on the rung.
"Now come down carefully!" said Albert.
Phil followed directions. He was only ten years old, and he certainly
did feel a little timid, but he felt that behind him was a prison and
before him was liberty, and he did not hesitate. So rung by rung he
cautiously descended, till he stood on the ground beside the ladder in
the company of his two friends.
"Bravo, Phil!" said Arthur Burks. "You've done splendidly. Now, Albert,
let's get away before old Sprague hears us."
The ladder was carefully taken down, and the two boys walked off with
it. Albert at the head and Arthur at the foot, while Phil followed
behind.
"We'll go to your house first, Albert, and take the ladder," said
Arthur. "Then Phil will go home with me."
The two boys lived not far apart, and this arrangement proved
convenient.
"I wonder what old Sprague will say in the morning," laughed Albert.
"He'll wonder how in the world Philip got away."
"Perhaps he'll think he jumped out of the window."
"How do you feel, Phil?" asked Arthur.
"I feel pretty hungry."
"What did you have for supper?"
"Two thin slices of bread and a cup of tea."
"I guess we'll find something in the pantry at our house," said Arthur,
"unless Rob's got out of bed and eaten it up."
By ten o'clock the ladder was replaced and the several boys were safe at
home.
Arthur was as good as his word. He got out some bread and butter, some
cold meat and a glass of milk, and Philip made a hearty meal.
"I haven't had as good a supper for a long time," he said with a deep
sigh of satisfaction.
"That's why you're so skinny. If we had you here we'd soon fat you up.
Now are you ready to go to bed?"
"Yes, Arthur. How kind you are to me."
"I can't compare with your friend Oscar, Phil."
"I hope not. Oscar's about as mean a boy as I know. He's very different
from you and Albert."
Meanwhile unconscious of the loss of one of their little household Mr.
and Mrs. Sprague and Oscar slumbered on till after sunrise.
"Get up, Oscar!" called Nahum Sprague, going to his son's room. "You
must get up."
"What must I get up for?" grumbled Oscar.
"Because you will have to do Philip's chores this morning."
"Why don't you call him, pa? I don't see why I should do his work."
"Because he is locked up for punishment. I am not ready to let him out
yet."
"It seems to me I am being punished. He has nothing to do while I have
to get up early and work."
"Would you be willing to change places with him, be locked up all day,
live on bread and water, and sleep on the hard floor?"
"Well, he's done it, and now you might let him out and set him to work."
"I have already said that I would let him out when he got down on his
knees and begged my pardon."
"And have I got to do his work till he begs your pardon? I say, that
ain't fair."
"I begin to think, Oscar, you are very lazy. I'll tell you what you may
do. When you are dressed you may go to the door of the attic room and
ask Philip if he is ready to apologize to me. If he says yes, I'll go
up and receive his apology, and then he can come down and go to work."
"All right, pa, I'll do it. I guess he's got enough by this time."
Five minutes later Oscar was at Philip's door. He had forgotten to bring
up the key which his father had taken down-stairs the evening previous.
He put his mouth to the keyhole, first rapping at the door to command
attention.
"I say, you Phil!" he called out.
There was no answer.
Oscar rapped again.
"Philip Lillis!" he called.
For reasons which we understand, though Oscar didn't, there was no
response.
Oscar became angry, and began to pound vigorously at the door.
"There, if he doesn't hear that he must be deaf!" he said to himself.
"I say, do you want to be let out?"
No answer.
"He hears me, and won't answer out of pure spite," reflected Oscar
indignantly.
He continued to pound.
"Look here, you young beggar," he cried, "if you don't answer me I'll
get pa to bring up the horsewhip and flog you within an inch of your
life. There won't be any bar-room loafers to save you this time."
Even this threat seemed to produce no effect, and Oscar, quite out of
temper, descended the stairs.
"Well," said Mr. Sprague, "what does he say?"
"What does he say? He won't say anything."
"Perhaps he didn't hear you," suggested Mr. Sprague.
"If he didn't he must be as deaf as a post."
"Slickening, is he?"
"That's about the size of it."
"Well, we can cure him of that."
"I'll tell you what to do, pa. I'll get the horsewhip and you can give
him a good thrashing. I told him you would. There won't be any one to
interfere up there."
"That's true. Go and get the whip, Oscar."
No employment was more congenial. Oscar went down-stairs with alacrity
and soon reappeared with the whip. By this time his father was dressed
and ready for action.
"Here's the whip, pa. May I go up with you?"
"Yes; come up."
Father and son ascended the stairs and stood before Philip's door.
"Speak to him first, pa, and see if he will answer you."
Nahum Sprague in a stern and authoritative tone called "Philip."
No answer.
"Didn't I tell you, pa."
"Philip Lillis!"
Again no reply.
"I didn't think the boy would be so owdacious. I'll soon learn him!"
Mr. Sprague turned the key and opened the door, entering the room with
upraised whip. He gave a gasp of surprise.
"Why, he isn't here!" he ejaculated.
"Isn't here?" shouted Oscar in amazement.
"No; and the winder is open," exclaimed Mr. Sprague.
"He wouldn't dare to jump out, would he?"
Nahum Sprague advanced to the window and put his head out, expecting to
see Philip on the ground beneath, perhaps with a broken limb. But no
Philip was visible!
CHAPTER XXXIII.
A CHANGE FOR PHILIP.
MR. SPRAGUE and Oscar looked at each other in complete stupefaction.
"What does it mean? Where can the boy have gone?" ejaculated Nahum.
"I'll be blest if I know," returned Oscar.
"The door was locked. He must have gone through the window. There wasn't
any rope in the room, was there?"
"No."
"And if he jumped out he would certainly have broken his neck, or his
limbs."
"He wouldn't have dared to jump. He's no braver than a mouse."
"It's the most mysterious thing I ever heard of," said Mr. Sprague,
wrinkling his brows.
"What are you going to do about it, dad?"
"I don't know. I'm flabbergasted."
"I'll tell you what to do when you get him back," suggested Oscar. "Give
him a sound thrashing. It will do him good."
"You can depend upon that. I think it may be well after breakfast for
you to go round and inquire if he has been seen in the village."
"What shall I say about his running away?"
"Say he's a little touched in the upper story."
"I guess he'd better be touched somewhere else," said Oscar with a loud
laugh at his own wit.
Considerably to his disgust Oscar was set to work doing some of Philip's
chores directly after breakfast, and it was nine o'clock before he got
ready to start in quest of Philip. Even then he did not start, for an
open buggy stopped at the gate, driven by a man from the village, and
containing as passenger, a boy of sixteen. This boy was Mark Mason, as
the reader will easily conjecture.
"Who's that, Oscar! Is it one of your friends?" asked Nahum Sprague.
"No; never saw him before in my life."
Mark advanced directly to Mr. Sprague.
"Is this Mr. Nahum Sprague?" he asked.
"Yes; that's my name."
"Does a boy named Philip Lillis live with you?"
"And what if there does?" inquired Mr. Sprague cautiously.
"I am sent from New York to take charge of him."
"You! A boy like you?" exclaimed Nahum in surprise. "Why, you ain't over
sixteen."
"You've guessed my age exactly," said Mark with a smile.
"Who sends you?"
"Mr. David Gilbert."
"Is he--rich?" asked Nahum curiously.
"Well, he's pretty well off."
"And he is willing to take care of the boy?"
"Yes. Can I see Philip?"
"Well," answered Nahum Sprague in an embarrassed tone, "you can pretty
soon."
"And why not now?"
"The fact is, rather a cur'us thing happened last night. The boy
disappeared."
"Is that true?" asked Mark with some suspicion.
"Yes. Fact is, the boy ain't quite right in his head."
"I am sorry for that," said Mark gravely. "How long has he been affected
that way?"
"Only lately, I don't think it will last."
"Please tell me the circumstances."
"Why, we locked him in the attic for fear he might get out and come to
some harm when he was light-headed, and this morning we couldn't find
him."
"Please show me the room."
Though a boy, Mark spoke with unconscious authority, and Mr. Sprague
immediately complied with his request.
He led the way up into the attic, and Mark looked into the room. He was
struck at once with its bare, unfurnished aspect.
"Did the boy spend the night here?" he asked abruptly.
"Yes."
"Where did he sleep?"
Mr. Sprague saw his mistake too late.
"Why--the fact is," he said hesitating, "the boy acted badly, and I
confined him here as a punishment."
"Expecting him to sleep on the floor?"
"Well, yes--as a punishment."
"How old is the boy?"
"Ten years old."
"Then all I can say is, that you treated him very cruelly."
"That ain't the way to talk to me," blustered Sprague. "I guess I know
the way to treat boys. You're only a boy yourself."
"That is true, but what has that got to do with it?"
"You should be more respectful to your elders."
"Suppose we get back to business, Mr. Sprague. Has Philip ever run away
before?"
"No, and it's very ungrateful for him to do it now. Why, I have
supported him ever since his father's death, and I paid the expenses of
his father's funeral."
"I shall probably repay you for that--when you find, and deliver to me
the boy."
This was welcome intelligence to Mr. Sprague, who straightway became
very polite to Mark.
"Thank you, my dear young friend. I wouldn't accept it if I was not a
poor man. I am very much attached to the boy, and I wouldn't let him go
if I could afford to keep him. Oscar, go to the village at once and see
if you can see anything of Philip."
"I will go with him, Mr. Sprague."
"Very well; but be sure to come back before you take him away."
"I certainly shall. It would not be fair to you to do otherwise. You may
get ready the items of expense while I am gone."
"Thank you, I will."
"How provoking that Philip should go away just at this time!" thought
Nahum. "It seems so mysterious, too. I do hope nothing has happened to
the boy, or this fellow, who seems very sharp, may not be willing to pay
me my bill."
Meanwhile Oscar and Mark went to the village.
"Do you live in New York?" asked Oscar.
"Yes."
"Are you Mr. Gilbert's son?"
"No; I am only his messenger."
"And you actually came all the way from New York alone?"
"Yes."
"Did he give you plenty of money for traveling?"
"Well, a pretty good sum," answered Mark, smiling. "What do you think
has become of Philip?"
"Blest if I know. I don't see how he could get out of the window."
"I hope he hasn't come to any harm."
"Oh, I guess not," said Oscar indifferently.
"Do you like the boy?" asked Mark keenly.
"Well, I don't care much about kids," answered Oscar.
"Have you any idea where Philip would be likely to go? Has he ever left
home before?"
"No; and he wouldn't now if he wasn't crazy."
At this moment they met Albert Frost.
"Do you know that boy?" asked Mark. "Perhaps he has seen Philip."
"I say, Albert," said Oscar, "have you seen anything of Philip Lillis?"
"Why do you ask? Don't he live at your house?"
"Yes, but he's taken French leave."
Something in Albert's face led Mark to suspect that he knew more of
Philip than he cared to tell, also that he was a friend of the young
boy.
"I have come from New York to take Philip with me," he said
significantly. "A friend of his father is going to adopt him."
"Is this sure?" asked Albert.
"Yes; I am very anxious to find the boy."
"Come here," said Albert. "Perhaps I can put you on his track. No, not
you!" This last was addressed to Oscar.
"Now," went on Albert, "can I depend on your being a friend of Philip?"
"Yes, you can. The boy will be in good hands when he reaches New York."
"He isn't now," said Albert. "I helped him escape from old Sprague's
last night. I can get him for you."
"Do so then."
"You are sure Sprague won't beat him?"
"Yes; I am to pay him some money, and I won't do it if any harm comes to
the boy."
"Go back with Oscar," said Albert aloud, "and I will have Philip at the
house inside of half an hour."
"Where is he?" asked Oscar curiously.
"I don't know--exactly, but I can find him."
"Is he at your house?"
"No. Go back and you will soon see him."
Nahum Sprague was much pleased when the two boys brought home this
intelligence. He had prepared a bill for expenses amounting to a hundred
dollars, on which his profit would be considerable. Money with him was
all powerful, and though he would have been glad to give Philip a good
thrashing, he cared still more for money.
When Philip made his appearance, accompanied by Albert and Arthur Burks,
Mr. Sprague greeted him with a genial smile.
"I am almost tempted to call you a bad boy," he said. "You have made me
feel quite anxious. This young gentleman has come here to take you to
New York. We shall miss you sadly, Mrs. Sprague and I, but if it is for
your good we won't complain."
"Are you willing to go with me, Philip?" asked Mark.
Philip looked up in Mark's face, and did not hesitate a moment.
"Yes," he said, placing his hand in Mark's; "I am ready to go now."
"I don't know whether your clothes are ready," said Mr. Sprague. "They
may need washing."
Poor Philip's appearance was such that Mark felt that he would at once
have to buy him a new outfit.
"Never mind about the clothes, Mr. Sprague," he said. "I shall buy
Philip some new ones."
When they were preparing to start Mr. Sprague ostentatiously wiped his
eyes on a large bandana handkerchief.
"Pardon my emotion, Mr. Mason," he said, addressing Mark, "but Philip is
very near and dear to me, and so was his father. I cannot part from him
without a pang. Yet if he is to be better off I will not murmur. Philip,
my dear child, don't forget your uncle Nahum."
"I shall remember you, Mr. Sprague," said Philip. This at least he could
say with truth.
"Thank you, thank you! I thought you would."
"I say, kid," put in Oscar, "my birthday comes the 17th of October. If
you're rich and prosperous, you might send me a birthday gift."
Philip smiled. All this unwonted attention amused him.
"I won't forget you, Oscar," he said.
The buggy drove up, and Mark helped Philip inside.
"If you want to cry, don't mind me," he said to Philip with a smile.
"If I cry, it will be for joy," said Philip. "I never want to see Mr.
Sprague or any of his family again."
CHAPTER XXXIV.
ON THE WAY HOME.
AT San Francisco Mark stopped over a day to buy some clothing for
Philip.
"Did Mr. Sprague select your clothes, Philip?" asked Mark. "If so, I
can't compliment him on his taste."
"They are some old clothes of Oscar's," answered Philip. "They are the
best I could get."
"We'll see if San Francisco can't furnish you with something better."
At a clothing store on Market Street, Mark bought a complete outfit for
Philip. The latter was much pleased when he saw his transformation in a
pier glass in the store.
"Now I shall have nothing to remind me of Mr. Sprague," he said. "Do you
want me to take the old clothes with me?"
"No; we will leave them here."
They stopped at the Russ House. Just after supper Mark met an old
acquaintance, the bronzed miner whom he had seen in Omaha. The latter
walked up eagerly and grasped Mark's hand.
"It does me good to see you again, young pard," he said. "And is this
the kid?"
"Yes."
"Well, upon my word he looks like a little gentleman."
"He has improved in appearance since I made his acquaintance in
Gulchville," said Mark with a smile. "I have just bought him a new
outfit."
"So, so! Well, fine feathers make fine birds. Well, my boy, does Mark
make you call him father?"
Philip laughed heartily at the idea.
"Why, he's only a boy!" he rejoined.
"Philip," said Mark with a warning finger, "you must treat me with
proper respect."
"Shall I call you father?"
"No; perhaps it will be more suitable to call me brother Mark. Did you
stop over in Nevada, Mr. Dempsey?"
"Yes; I went to the mine."
"What did you learn?"
"That a New York syndicate is trying to purchase the mine, and this has
carried up the price of stock to two hundred and fifty dollars."
Mark's eyes sparkled.
"Why that would make mother's share worth fifty thousand dollars," he
said.
"I advise you to take measures to secure your mother's rights as soon
as you reach home. There is danger in delay."
"I certainly will follow your advice, Mr. Dempsey. Shall you hold on to
your shares?"
"No. I think I will sell out. I have an offer from a man in Virginia
City which I think I shall accept. The stock may go higher, but again it
may go lower. My shares will bring twenty-five thousand dollars, and
that will make a man like me rich."
"I wish I had control of mother's stock now," said Mark. "I could
realize a price which would make her comfortable for life."
The sudden rise in the value of the Golden Hope shares was already known
in New York. Mr. Talbot on receiving the intelligence called on his
brokers, Crane & Lawton.
"Would you advise me to sell now, Mr. Crane?" he asked.
"Wait a week, Mr. Talbot, and you may realize a few more points. Then
you had better unload."
"I will be guided by your advice. I am sure it is for the best."
There was still, however, a feeling of uneasiness in the mind of Mr.
Talbot, who knew very well that Mrs. Mason was the rightful owner of
half the stock which he controlled. He decided to call on his sister
in-law once more, and urge her to sign a paper releasing him from
further liability as executor of her father's estate.
"I wonder whether Mark has got back," he said to himself. "If not,
probably Ellen is very short of money. I will offer, if necessary, five
hundred dollars for her signature. I don't think she can resist that."
Mrs. Mason had just finished washing her breakfast dishes when there was
a knock at the door. Opening it, she saw the familiar face of Tom
Trotter, dressed in the uniform of a Western Uniform telegraph boy.
"What, Tom!" she exclaimed in surprise. "Have you changed your
business?"
"Yes, Mrs. Mason," answered Tom complacently. "I've give up blackin'
boots, and now I'm a messenger boy like Mark."
"You look very nice in your uniform, Tom. There's another improvement I
see."
"What is that, Mrs. Mason?"
"Your hands and face are both clean."
"I've got to keep clean now," said Tom soberly. "It seems kind of
strange, but I guess I'll get used do it. When I look in the glass I
don't hardly know myself."
"Don't you like it better?"
"Well, I guess I shall when I get used to it. But I forgot, I've got a
message for you," and Tom drew out an official envelope.
"It must be from Mark," said Mrs. Mason in excitement, and she tore open
the dispatch and read as follows:
       *       *       *       *       *
OMAHA, Sept. 17.
Shall be home on Friday. MARK.
       *       *       *       *       *
"Mark will be home on Friday, Tom!" said the happy mother. "How glad I
shall be!"
"Hurray!" exclaimed Tom. "That's good news."
"Come round and take dinner with us Sunday, Tom. We'll have a little
feast in honor of Mark's return."
"I'll see, Mrs. Mason. I was engaged to take dinner with Jay Gould, but
I'll telegraph him I can't come."
"I am afraid we can't give you as good a dinner as Jay Gould."
"You'll have Mark here and that's better than the best dinner Jay can
give me. Shall I wear my swallow tail?"
"No; your uniform will do."
Tom Trotter had hardly gone out when there was another knock at the
door. On opening it Mrs. Mason was somewhat surprised to see her
brother-in-law. Solon Talbot's manner was very gracious and
patronizing.
"I hope you are well, Ellen," he said extending his hand.
"Thank you, I am quite well," replied Mrs. Mason.
"And Edith too?"
Mr. Talbot seldom took any notice of Edith, but he had an object to gain
now.
"Yes, Edith is well. She has just gone to school."
"I think I heard that Mark was absent from the city."
"Yes, he is away."
"He has been gone some time?"
"Yes."
"I should think you would miss him."
"So I do. I miss him constantly."
"You must find it hard to get along without him--financially I mean."
"He left some money behind. I am not in want."
"Ellen, I am really sorry to see you living in such a poor way. These
humble rooms are not suitable for you."
Mrs. Mason was rather astonished to hear these words from her
brother-in-law. She did not understand that he was preparing the way for
another offer.
"It would certainly be pleasant for me to live better," she said. "I
hope to when Mark gets older."
"You had better not count too much upon that. An office boy's wages
seldom amount to much. How much does he earn?"
"He averaged about five dollars a week as a telegraph messenger."
"So I supposed. He may get a dollar or two more in a year or two--but
what is that?"
"It isn't much," Mrs. Mason admitted.
"I was talking the matter over with Mary the other day, and it is
largely on her account that I came here this morning to make a proposal
to you."
"Now it's coming!" thought Mrs. Mason. "Well?" she said.
"And I have made up my mind to offer you five hundred dollars."
"That is very kind," said Mrs. Mason demurely.
"On condition that you sign this paper releasing me from all
responsibility as executor of your father's estate."
"This seems important to you, Solon," said Mrs. Mason keenly.
"It is a matter of form. I shall present it at the probate court. But it
gives me an excuse for offering you a generous gift."
"I will think it over, Solon."
"Think it over? What thinking over do you need? I am not sure that I can
give you time for that, as the gift is entirely voluntary on my part. I
have brought the money with me, and in five minutes you can be a
comparatively rich woman."
"I have just had a telegram from Mark saying that he will be home on
Friday. I will wait till he comes. If you will come round Saturday----"
"I can't promise," said Talbot, deeply disappointed. "You stand very
much in your own light."
"I can make no other answer, Solon."
"Confound that young meddler, Mark!" muttered Talbot as he left the
house. "But for him I should have no difficulty in obtaining his
mother's signature."
CHAPTER XXXV.
EDGAR GETS INTO TROUBLE.
WHILE Solon Talbot was intent upon making money, his son Edgar was left
to spend his time pretty much as he pleased. His father had secured him
a place with a firm of brokers in Wall Street, in fact in the office of
Crane & Lawton, through whom he intended to dispose of his mining
stocks.
Edgar received five dollars a week, and this his father allowed him to
keep for himself. But five dollars a week in a city like New York won't
go very far when a boy gives up his evenings to playing pool.
One night Edgar made the acquaintance of a showy young man whom he
ignorantly supposed belonged to a prominent New York family. It was in
fact our old acquaintance, Hamilton Schuyler, with whom Mark had already
had some experiences which did not impress him very much in the young
man's favor.
Schuyler's attention was drawn to Edgar at a pool-room in the
neighborhood of Forty-Second Street, and he made inquiries about him.
Ascertaining that Edgar's father was supposed to be rich he cultivated
his acquaintance, and flattered him artfully.
"You play a good game of billiards, Mr. Talbot," he said.
"Oh, fair," answered Edgar complacently.
"Do you mind having a game with me?"
"You probably play a good deal better than I do."
"We can try and see. By the way, let me introduce myself," and he handed
Edgar his card.
"Schuyler Hamilton!" read Edgar, "that is an old name, is it not?"
"Yes," answered Schuyler carelessly. "I am related to most of the old
Knickerbocker families. I am very particular whom I associate with, but
I saw at once that you were a gentleman."
Foolish Edgar was very much flattered.
"My father is a capitalist," he said. "We used to live in Syracuse, but
he thinks he can make more money in New York."
"Just so. There are plenty of chances of making money here. I made five
thousand dollars in Wall Street last week myself."
"You did!" exclaimed Edgar dazzled.
"Yes. Sometimes I have made more. I don't often lose. Which ball will
you select. The spot?"
"Yes."
"I suppose it takes considerable money to speculate in Wall Street?"
"Oh no, not on a margin."
"I should like to make a strike myself. I am in the office of Crane &
Lawton."
"Are you indeed? I never did any business with them, but I understand
that they stand very high."
"I think they are rich."
The game was played, and resulted in the success of Edgar.
"Really, you play a strong game. Suppose--just for the excitement of
it--we stake a dollar on the next game. What do you say?"
"All right!"
Edgar had received his week's pay in the afternoon, and was well
provided. He flattered himself he could play better than Schuyler, and
thought it would be very agreeable to win money in that way. Schuyler
managed to let him win.
"Really," he said with pretended annoyance, "I am afraid you are more
than a match for me."
"Perhaps I was lucky," said Edgar, elated.
"At any rate I will try again. Let us call it two dollars."
"Very well," assented Edgar.
Somehow this game was won by his opponent by five points. Edgar was
annoyed, for this took a dollar from his pocket, and it had been
arranged that the loser should pay for the use of the tables.
It was an accident, however, and he kept on. At the close of the evening
he was without a cent.
"I have been unlucky," he said, trying to hide his mortification. "I
have lost all the money I had with me."
"That is too bad. Here, give me a memorandum for two dollars, and I will
hand you back that amount. Some time when you are in funds you can pay
me."
"Thank you!" said Edgar in a tone of relief.
"You are really a better player than I am," went on Schuyler, "but the
balls happened to run in my favor. Another evening I shall be the
loser."
This was the first of Edgar's acquaintance with Schuyler Hamilton, but
it was by no means the last. They got into the way of meeting nearly
every night and Edgar ran more and more into Schuyler's debt. However,
Hamilton was very easy with him. He accepted memorandums of
indebtedness, which somehow seemed a very easy way of paying debts.
Edgar did not reflect that a day of reckoning must come at last.
At last Hamilton Schuyler thought it time to bring matters to a crisis.
"Do you know how much you are owing me, Edgar?" he said one evening.
"No," answered Edgar uneasily.
"Seventy-five dollars!"
"It can't be!" exclaimed Edgar, incredulous.
"These things increase faster than you think for," said Schuyler
carelessly.
"I suppose you'll let it run," remarked Edgar with a troubled look.
"I should be glad to do so, my dear boy, but I need the money. I was hit
rather hard at the races yesterday, and the long and short of it is,
that you will have to pay me."
"I can't pay you," said Edgar doggedly.
Schuyler frowned.
"What do you mean by that?" he demanded sternly.
"I mean exactly what I say. I haven't got any money. I only get five
dollars a week, and I can't spare any of that."
"You've got to get the money. You had no business to bet if you couldn't
pay."
"I never did bet till I got acquainted with you."
"Enough of this, boy!" said Hamilton, waving his hand in a dignified
manner. "I shall have to lay the matter before your father."
"No, don't do that! He wouldn't let me keep my wages."
"That is your affair, not mine. Can't you tell him you want to pay a
tailor's bill, and get the money that way?"
"No; I get my clothes charged at his tailor's."
"Oh, well, I don't care how you get it as long as you do get it. Doesn't
your father leave any money lying about in his desk or in his bureau
drawers?"
"No. Besides, you don't want me to steal, do you?"
"Not if you can get the money any other way."
"Look here, Mr. Schuyler, I thought you were rich. How do you happen to
be in want of seventy-five dollars?"
"Anybody might be short of money. One day when I was traveling in the
Adirondacks, I met a rich man--a millionaire--who was in trouble. 'I
say, Schuyler,' he said to me, 'can you loan me a hundred dollars. I
give you my word I am almost penniless, and no one knows me here.' Now I
happened to have three hundred dollars in my pocketbook, and I at once
produced it and lent him the money. You see even a millionaire can get
into a money scrape."
"Who was the millionaire?" asked Edgar, who was not quite so credulous
a believer of Schuyler's pictures as formerly.
"I don't feel at liberty to tell. It would not be honorable. But to come
back to our own business! You must make some arrangement to pay me."
"Tell me how," said Edgar sulkily.
"Don't you deposit for your firm in the Park Bank?"
"Yes."
"Always checks?"
"Sometimes there are bank bills."
Schuyler bent over and whispered in Edgar's ear. Edgar flushed and then
looked nervous and agitated.
"You ask me to do that," he said.
"Yes, there is no danger. Say you lost the bills in the street."
Edgar was not a conscientious boy or a boy of high principle, but this
suggestion shocked him.
"Would you ruin me?" he asked.
"I would have you pay me what you owe me. If you don't there will be a
fuss."
"I wish I had never met you, Mr. Schuyler," said poor Edgar bitterly.
"I have been disappointed in you," said Schuyler coldly. "I thought you
were the son of a gentleman and a gentleman yourself."
"Who says I am not?"
"I don't. I expect you to behave like one. Good night."
This interview took place on Fifth Avenue not far from Delmonico's café.
When the two parted another boy, who had been following at a little
distance, moved rapidly forward and placed his hand on Edgar's shoulder.
"Cousin Edgar," he said.
Edgar turned.
"Mark!" he said, not with his old hauteur, for trouble had humbled his
pride.
"Yes. Who was that you were walking with?" asked Mark.
"No one you know. He is Mr. Schuyler, from one of the best New York
families."
Mark smiled.
"I hope you have no business with him," he said.
"I owe him seventy-five dollars, and I don't know how on earth I am
going to pay him."
