scornfully, “Get out of here, woman, or it’ll be the worse for you!”




CHAPTER XX. JAMES BARCLAY COMES TO GRIEF.


“Get out yourself!” retorted Mrs. Hogan, as with undaunted mien she
faced the ruffian. “What are you doin’ to old Jerry?”

“Mind your business, woman, and leave the room, if you don’t want to
get hurt!”

James Barclay still retained his grip upon the old man as he spoke.

He was as bold as his father was timid, and did not mean to be
frightened away by a woman.

“I’m no more a woman than yourself,” said Mrs. Hogan, angrily, who
preferred to be addressed as a lady.

“Well, you’re dressed like one, any way,” rejoined Barclay, with a
smile of amusement. “My father and I have a little business together,
and you’re not wanted.”

“Is he your son, Jerry?” asked Mrs. Hogan, not certain whether the
statement was true.

“Yes,” answered Jerry, feebly, “but he wants to rob me. Take him away,
Mrs. Hogan.”

“Ain’t you ashamed of yourself to trate your old father so manely?”
demanded Mrs. Hogan, indignantly.

“Give me the money, father, and I’ll go,” said Barclay, thinking it
politic to get away as soon as possible.

“Take him away!” said old Jerry, feebly.

“I’ll do it!” responded Mrs. Hogan. “I’ll tache him, the murtherin’
thafe!”

She suited the action to the word, and dashed the scalding hot water
into the face of James Barclay.

He uttered a hoarse cry of mingled rage and pain, and, leaving his
father, dashed after his bold assailant.

He was partially blinded, however, by the pain, and she easily escaped.

Scarcely knowing where he went, he ran against an athletic, broad
shouldered man, who was bringing up a basket of coal.

“O, that’s your game, is it?” said the newcomer, fancying the assault
intentional. “I don’t know who you are, but I’ll give ye all ye want.
No man can hit Dennis O’Brien widout gettin’ as good as he gives.”

In a trice the two men were grappling, and, losing their balance,
tumbled down the stairs, receiving some hard knocks on the way. The
result was that both were arrested by a passing policeman, and locked
up.

James Barclay, whose burns were severe, was sent to the hospital on the
Island, and it was thirty days before he was free to pursue his plans
again.

Old Jerry, picking himself up after his narrow escape, carefully
counted his gold pieces, and to his great relief found that none were
missing.

He breathed a sigh of relief when he learned that his son had been
arrested, and determined to deposit his gold in the savings bank, so as
to guard against future robbery.

It was about this time that Paul, called up town by some errand, was
crossing Madison Square, when he heard his name called.

Looking up he recognized, with no little pleasure the smiling face of
Jennie Cunningham.

She was accompanied by a boy of about Paul’s size, fashionably dressed,
and wearing an expression of high self appreciation on his rather
narrow face.

“How are you, Paul? It’s an age since I saw you,” said the young
heiress, cordially, offering her hand.

“I am glad to see you, Miss Jennie,” responded Paul.

“Why haven’t you been up to see us? I have been expecting you for a
long time.”

“I wasn’t sure I wouldn’t be intruding.”

“Then I’ll tell you once for all, you needn’t be a bit afraid. I want
to beat you at dominoes. You beat me last time, didn’t you?”

“I believe so,” said Paul.

“Then I want my revenge. When will you come?”

“Whenever I am invited,” said Paul, smiling.

“That reminds me--how stupid I was to forget it--that I am to have a
fancy dress party of young people next Wednesday evening. You’ll come,
won’t you?”

“I am afraid I have no clothes fit to wear at a party.”

“O, you are to come in costume. Come as a telegraph boy. That will be
the very thing. You’ll act the character naturally, you know, and no
one will know that you are a real telegraph boy.”

“I should like very much to come, if I can come in my uniform.”

“That’s just what I want. Mind, then, Wednesday evening, at eight
o’clock. What is the number of your office?”

“No. ---- Broadway.”

“I will send you a regular card of invitation. Then you will be treated
just like the rest.”

She was about to turn away when a thought struck her.

“O, I forgot to introduce you to my cousin, Mark Sterling. Mark, this
is Paul Parton, the boy who drove off the burglar when papa was gone to
Washington. You’ve heard me speak of him?”

“O, yes, I’ve heard of him,” said Mark, coldly. “He behaved in a very
creditable way--for a telegraph boy,” he continued, in a patronizing
tone.

“Or for any other boy!” rejoined Jennie, quickly. “Really, I look upon
Paul quite as a hero.”

“I am afraid I am not entitled to such high praise,” said Paul,
modestly.

“You must make allowances for my Cousin Jennie,” said Mark. “She is a
girl, and girls are all apt to gush.”

“This particular girl isn’t, Mark,” said his cousin, indignantly. “Have
you ever seen the burglar since, Paul?”

“Yes.”

“O, tell me where.”

“On Broadway.”

“Why didn’t you have him arrested?”

“There was no policeman at hand. Besides, I told him that night that if
he would go peaceably I would not molest him.”

“Such a promise doesn’t count,” said Mark, in a tone of authority. “You
should have called a policeman.”

“My promise always counts!” said Paul, firmly.

“Even if given to a burglar?” said Mark, with a sneer.

“Yes, even if given to a burglar.”

Mark took off his hat mockingly.

“Really, I wasn’t prepared to find such a lofty sense of honor--in a
telegraph boy!” he said, with a satirical smile.

“I am afraid you are not very well acquainted with telegraph boys,”
said Paul, good naturedly.

He quite understood that Mark meant to sneer at him, but being
confident of Jennie Cunningham’s favor, he felt quite indifferent to
the opinion of her cousin.

“No,” said Mark, significantly; “I have never had the honor of
associating much with that class of--persons.”

“Come, Mark, don’t make yourself so disagreeable,” said Jennie,
unceremoniously. “Remember that Paul is a particular friend of mine.”

“Thank you, Miss Jennie,” said Paul, gratefully.

“I was not aware of that,” said Mark, stiffly.

“I am afraid I must be going; my time is not my own,” said Paul. “Good
morning, Miss Jennie; good morning, Mr. Sterling.”

Jennie Cunningham responded cordially, but Mark affected not to hear
the telegraph boy’s farewell. He was not in the best of humor, having
a partiality for his pretty cousin, and being disposed to regard with
jealousy any kindness bestowed by her upon other boys. He was foolish
enough to venture upon a remonstrance, without reflecting that this was
the poorest possible way of recommending himself to the favor of his
companion.

“Jennie,” he commenced, “I am very much surprised at the notice you
take of that low telegraph boy.”

“Do you mean Paul Parton?”

“Yes, if that is the fellow’s name.”

“Then I wish you to understand that he is not a low boy.”

“What do you know of him? What do you know of his family?”

“Nothing, except that he has neither father nor mother living.”

“Probably they were low persons.”

“Why probably?”

“You know well enough that nice boys don’t become telegraph messengers.”

“Paul is a nice boy,” asserted Jennie, with spirit.

“You seem to be infatuated with him,” said Mark, shrugging his
shoulders.

“Because I treat him with common politeness?”

“Didn’t you invite him to your party next Wednesday?”

“Suppose I did?”

“Do you think it suitable to have a boy like that among your guests?”

“Yes, I do.”

“I don’t believe your mother will approve of it.”

“My mother invited Paul to spend the evening whenever he had time.”

This rather took Mark by surprise. He could not very well say anything
in condemnation of his aunt, though he chose to lecture his cousin.

“I hope you won’t expect me to take any notice of him,” he said, with
dignity.

“O, I don’t think he will insist upon it. I will take care that he
feels himself at home.”

Mark did not venture to say more, but walked beside his cousin in a
disgusted frame of mind. I am afraid he was really jealous of Paul,
whom, against his will, he was forced to admit to be a very good
looking boy.




CHAPTER XXI. THE FANCY DRESS PARTY.


Paul might have hesitated about accepting the invitation to attend a
fashionable party if he had not been on such cordial and friendly terms
with his young hostess and her family. He was sure to be kindly treated
by them and by the majority of the guests who very properly follow the
lead of their entertainers. He foresaw that Mark would snub him if he
had an opportunity, but for this he cared little. It was clear that
Mark was foolishly puffed up with an idea of his own consequence, and
had been accustomed to look with scorn upon all who were not on the
same social plane as himself.

Paul had for some time been thinking of ordering another and newer
uniform, and thought it good policy to do so at once, that he might
have the new suit to wear for the first time at Jennie Cunningham’s
party. It is the custom for boys to obtain them from the company,
paying by installments, or regular weekly deductions from their pay.

The next morning some surprise was excited at the office by the receipt
of a square envelope, of perfumed French paper, directed to

  PAUL PARTON, A. D. T., No. 91.

“A love letter, I suppose,” said the chief, with a smile, as he handed
the note to Paul.

Paul opened it, and, having no reason for secrecy, passed it to the
superintendent.

“An invitation to a fancy dress party!” said that official, in
surprise. “You seem to be pretty thick with the Cunninghams, Number 91.”

“They are very polite and kind,” said Paul.

“I suppose you are trying to ingratiate yourself with the young lady.”

“I am too young to think of that,” answered the telegraph boy, very
sensibly.

“Shall you accept the invitation?”

“Yes, sir.”

“You must go in fancy dress.”

“I have already decided to go as a telegraph boy.”

“Then you knew of this before?”

“I met Miss Jennie yesterday in Madison Square, and was told she meant
to invite me.”

“You are a lucky boy.”

“So I think, sir.”

From that time Paul was treated with greater consideration in the
office, the chief regarding him as a protege of the Cunninghams. This
was an advantage, for he was now employed on the most agreeable and
desirable commissions that came to the office.

On Wednesday morning Paul said to old Jerry: “I shall be home late
tonight, Jerry.”

“Why, Paul? Will you be kept at the office?”

“No; I am to attend a party.”

Jerry opened his eyes.

“A party! Where, Paul?”

“In Fifty First Street. It is a fancy dress party.”

“But how came they to invite you?”

“They employed me on one occasion, and have treated me in a friendly
way since.”

“I don’t understand it, Paul. Is it a--a rich family?”

“Yes, Jerry.”

The old man’s eyes lighted up hopefully.

“And they are good friends of yours, Paul?” he asked.

“Yes, grand--yes, Jerry.”

“Then, Paul, you can do me a great favor. You will, won’t you?” pleaded
the old man, coaxingly.

“What is it?” inquired Paul, suspiciously.

“Tell them how poor I am, Paul, and ask them if they won’t help me.
It would be nothing to rich folks to send an old man ten dollars, or
twenty, and would do me a sight of good.”

“You must be crazy to ask me such a thing,” answered Paul, sternly.
“Have you no shame, or do you think I have none, to beg money of
strangers?”

“But I am so poor, Paul,” whined the miser.

“I am tired of hearing of that, Jerry,” said the boy, with an
expression of disgust on his face. “It was bad enough when I believed
you to be really poor, but now that I know you to have plenty of money,
and are very likely rich, it makes me sick to hear you tell such
falsehoods.”

“Is this the way you talk to a poor old man who has brought you up?”
whined old Jerry.

Paul was in no wise moved by this appeal. He knew too well the extent
of his obligations to the old miser.

“I have always paid my way, Jerry,” he said, coldly. “Even when I was
only six years old, I earned all I cost you. If you think I am any
expense to you, I am willing to leave you any time.”

“No, no, Paul,” said old Jerry in alarm. “I can’t spare you. I am
getting old, and I don’t want to be left alone.”

“Then don’t ask me to do what I am ashamed of, Jerry.”

Paul arrived at the party about twenty minutes after eight. He did not
care to be among the first in attendance. He was shown upstairs to the
gentlemen’s reception room, and, having adjusted his toilet, went
downstairs. Jennie and her mother stood at one end of the drawing room.

Paul made his way towards her, and, following the example of other
guests, shook hands, and offered congratulations, for it was Jennie’s
birthday.

“I am glad to see you, Paul,” said Jennie, with a smile, and her mother
echoed the welcome.

Turning away, Paul met the eyes of Mark Sterling, bent upon him with a
satirical look.

“Good evening,” said Paul, politely.

“So you’re on hand!” said Mark, not over courteously.

“As you see,” answered Paul, coolly. “That is a fine costume of yours.”

Mark sustained the character of a young Highland chieftain, his dress
being quite costly.

“Yes,” he answered, his vanity gratified, even by a compliment from a
telegraph boy. “You’ve got a new suit, haven’t you?”

“Yes.”

“It is a pity you went to such an expense. No one is likely to take
much notice of a telegraph boy.”

“O, I shall use it on duty,” answered Paul. “You are very considerate
for me.”

“Paul, let me introduce you to Miss Grace De Vere,” said Mrs.
Cunningham.

Paul bowed politely to a pretty brunette of fourteen, dressed as a
flower girl.

“Shall we promenade?” asked Paul, observing that many of the guests
were walking in couples.

“Yes, if you like. I suppose it is very appropriate for a telegraph boy
and a flower girl to walk together,” said Grace, laughing. “What a very
natural telegraph boy you make! Where did you get the uniform? Did you
borrow it of a real telegraph boy?”

“No,” answered Paul, “I had it made expressly for me.”

“I suppose that is better. I hired my suit of a costumer.”

As Paul and Grace were promenading, they met Mark escorting a
pale, sallow girl with a long nose, but very expensively dressed
as a maid of honor. Mark turned up his nose, but looked rather
envious, nevertheless, for Grace De Vere was not only pretty, but
of high family. He said something to his companion, and both stared
impertinently at Paul.

“Do you know Mark Sterling?” asked Grace.

“Only a little.”

“I don’t like him at all. He is awfully disagreeable. He looks as if he
didn’t like you.”

“I don’t think he does. Can you tell me the name of the young lady with
him?”

“It is Irene Braddon. Do you admire her?”

“I prefer my present partner,” said Paul.

“Thank you; you are very gallant. Still, it isn’t much of a compliment.
Irene belongs to a rich family, but she is disagreeable, and few like
her.”

“Is Mark an admirer of hers?”

“He likes to be seen with her because she is of a rich and prominent
family. But he likes his cousin, Jennie Cunningham, best. He is jealous
of every boy who pays her any attention. But I want to ask you a
question. Why have I never met you before at any parties? I am sure I
should have remembered you.”

“This is the first party I ever attended.”

“Indeed! How can that be?”

“Because I am really what I represent, a telegraph boy.”

Paul watched the face of his young companion closely, fearing that this
revelation would cut him off from her favor.

“You don’t mean to say that you are the telegraph boy that frightened
away the burglar?” inquired Grace, eagerly.

“I believe I am.”

“Why, you are quite a hero!” exclaimed Grace, enthusiastically.

“O, no,” answered Paul, modestly. “It didn’t take much courage.”

Grace asked Paul a great many questions, and did not seem at all
shocked to learn that she was escorted by a common telegraph boy.

“Come, Grace,” said Jennie, after a while, “we can’t have you two
monopolize each other. My cousin, Mark, solicits the honor of escorting
you. Paul, if you are a very good boy, you may walk with me.”

“Did you know, Miss Grace,” said Mark, “that you were walking with a
real telegraph boy?”

“Yes, he told me so.”

“I am surprised that my Cousin Jennie should have invited him here.”

“I am not at all. I think him the handsomest boy at the party.”

“There is no accounting for taste,” rejoined Mark, very much disgusted
at this laudation of a boy he despised.

“He is so agreeable, too,” added Grace, with malicious pleasure at her
companion’s discomfiture.

“He has plenty of cheek!” said Mark. “He tries to make himself very
conspicuous. It would be better taste to stand quietly in a corner.”

Later in the evening, Paul became more conspicuous, and Mark became
still more disgusted with him.




CHAPTER XXII. THE YOUNG MINSTRELS.


About half past nine Jennie beckoned Paul to come into the back parlor,
which was comparatively deserted.

“I am going to ask a favor of you,” she said.

“I shall be glad to do anything you wish,” said Paul, earnestly.

“I am preparing a surprise for the company--something not down in the
programme. I ask you to help me because you can sing.”

Paul blushed.

“I don’t call it singing,” he said, modestly.

“I am sure you have a very nice voice, Paul. Now I will tell you what I
want. You and I are to dress as Italian street singers--I have a harp
on which I can play a little. We will come in as soon as we are ready
and surprise the company.”

“Will it be necessary to sing in Italian?” asked Paul, with a smile. “I
have forgotten all mine.”

“You know as much as I do. We will sing some of the popular ballads.
Here is a list which I have written down. Do you know them?”

Paul looked over the list and selected three which he felt able to sing.

“Very well,” said Jennie, with satisfaction. “You will find your suit
ready in your dressing room. I have spoken to one of the boys--Arthur
Constable--to go up and assist you. Now, will you be ready in fifteen
minutes?”

“Yes,” answered Paul, confidently.

“I wonder what Jennie and the telegraph boy are talking about so
earnestly!” thought Mark, with a scowl, for he had just noticed their
conversation. “I never suspected that Jennie had such low tastes.”

An unpleasant frown gathered on Mark’s face, which he made no attempt
to conceal. He was getting to dislike Paul more and more.

Next the two whose intimacy had provoked his discontent left the room,
and his anger increased.

Presently, however, Mr. Cunningham entered the room and said, with a
smile:

“Young people, I have engaged the services of two Italian minstrels,
who will try to entertain you for a short time.”

Instantly there was a hush of expectation, for the announcement was
understood literally.

The door was thrown open, and Paul and Jennie entered. Paul wore a suit
of black velvet, and a hat also of velvet, in which it must be admitted
he looked very handsome. Jennie was attired also in a characteristic
national costume, and carried in her hand a harp.

As they entered together most of the company agreed that they made a
very attractive picture.

They advanced, hand in hand, till they reached a position at the head
of the room. Then Jennie struck her harp, and the two began to sing a
favorite melody, their voices according remarkably well.

There was a sound of applause at the end of the first song. Paul bowed,
and, taking his hat from his head, gravely made the round of the
guests. Pennies were dropped by such as had them.

When Paul reached Mark he was tempted to pass him by, for he saw the
scornful smile upon his face, but he did not care to make a scene, and
held out his cap to him as well as the rest.

Mark dropped in a penny.

“That’s for the monkey,” he said, in a significant tone. “Keep it
yourself.”

“Thank you,” said Paul, with unruffled good humor, for he felt that he
could afford to be good natured. “Your liberality is unexpected.”

Mark bit his lips, foolishly taking offense at this good natured retort.

Another song was vociferously called for and given. Then a third was
demanded, and the two minstrels retired amid a volley of plaudits.

“That was perfectly charming,” said Grace De Vere, enthusiastically.
“What a nice looking boy that Paul Parton is! He looked perfectly
lovely in his velvet suit.”

The boy to whom this was addressed was Mark Sterling, and it may well
be believed that it was far from pleasing him.

“Are you falling in love with him?” he asked, with a sneer.

“I do believe I am!” answered Grace. “Don’t tell him, though!”

“I am not likely to. The fellow is conceited enough already.”

“Now, Mark, you are too bad. To me he seems remarkably modest.”

“He ought to have more sense than to push himself forward so, being
only a telegraph boy.”

“I don’t care what he is; he is very nice and very good looking.”

“I suppose you admire his singing, too?”

“Yes, he has a sweet voice.”

“That’s a matter of opinion.”

“I do believe you’re jealous of him, Mark. You don’t like it because
Jennie didn’t ask you to take the part.”

This was really true, for Mark fancied himself a singer, though his
voice was thin and shrill. Had he taken Paul’s part the effect would
have been ludicrous, but, of course, he had no idea of this.

It so happened that he knew the three songs which had been sung, and
he was very much annoyed to have been passed over in what was the
pronounced success of the evening, and to see a mere telegraph boy
selected instead of him.

“Jealous of a telegraph boy!” repeated Mark, with a scornful
inflection. “I am not sunk quite so low as that.”

About eleven o’clock the party broke up. Being a juvenile party, it
was not kept up as late as if it had been attended by older persons.
Paul took his leave with the rest, feeling that he had enjoyed himself
uncommonly well.

“I must thank you for a pleasant evening, Miss Jennie,” he said, as he
said adieu to his youthful hostess.

“You did your part towards making it so, Paul.”

“Thank you for the opportunity.”

“Don’t forget to come soon to see us,” said Jennie, giving her hand to
Paul.

Paul bowed his thanks, and left the house with three or four others in
his company. Among them was Mark Sterling.

“Where do you live?” asked Mark, abruptly.

“Down town,” answered Paul, shortly. He felt reluctant to say that he
lived in Ludlow Street, although he conjectured rightly that Mark would
have no idea where it was situated.

“I thought, perhaps, you might live on Fifth Avenue.”

“Not at present; that may come later.”

Mark laughed disdainfully.

“When you give a party, I hope you will do us all the honor to send an
invitation.”

“Would you accept?”

“Yes, I think I would.”

“I will bear it in mind. Now, let me bid you all good night.”

Mark was disappointed to find that not one of his companions would
join in his sarcasms against the telegraph boy. All thought him very
agreeable and very handsome, and Mark was at last obliged to give up
his attack, and lapse into sullenness.

Paul walked to Sixth Avenue, though that was not the most direct
route homewards, and in place of taking a car, walked slowly down the
avenue. It was a pleasant night, and he felt broad awake, and by no
means fatigued. It seemed to him pleasanter to walk part of the way
at least. As he walked he fell into serious thought. He had left an
elegant house, crowded with a gay and fashionable company, and he
was going--where? To a miserable tenement house, in which he shared
a poor and ill furnished room with a squalid and miserly old man, in
appearance not above a tramp. Certainly the contrast was a startling
one. As he dwelt upon it, Paul felt more and more disgusted with his
home and surroundings.

“Why can’t I live in a refined house, among refined people?” he asked
himself. “I feel much more at home with them than with old Jerry. Must
I always live a beggar?”

Paul’s mental answer was an emphatic “No!” He was young and hopeful.
The world was before him. He was poor, but other poor boys had raised
themselves from poverty as great, and he felt that there was an equal
chance for him.

His reflections were interrupted by the sight of a tall young man,
not far in advance, whose unsteady gait showed that he was under the
influence of liquor.




CHAPTER XXIII. THE PICKPOCKET.


Such a sight as this is by no means uncommon in a large city, and of
course Paul had witnessed it many times. But for one circumstance, he
would have given the young man a passing glance, and gone on. But he
observed that the young man was followed. The person following was
also a young man, rather flashily attired, and, as Paul thought, of
suspicious appearance. It seemed to him clear that he had designs upon
the first young man, whose condition was likely to make him an easy
prey to an unscrupulous acquaintance.

“Where have I seen that man before?” thought Paul.

He was puzzled for a moment, and then he remembered that he had strayed
one day into a court room, and seen him as a prisoner at the bar,
charged with picking a pocket.

“That’s what he’s after now,” thought Paul. “I will prevent him if I
can.”

The telegraph boy moderated his pace, so as not to attract the
attention of the man in the rear, but kept a close watch over him.

Finally the pickpocket came to a sudden resolution, and quickening his
pace came up with the man he was following.

“Excuse me, my friend,” he said, smoothly, “but I see you are in need
of assistance. Won’t you take my arm? I’ll take you home, if you wish.”

“You’re very good,” said the stranger. “I’ve been drinking more than is
good for me, I’m afraid.”

“We all do that sometimes,” said his new acquaintance. “I’ve been there
myself. Where are you staying?”

“At the Albemarle Hotel. Am I going the right way? I’ve got turned
round, I think.”

“Yes, you are on the right track. I live close by your hotel myself, so
I can go along with you just as well as not.”

“Thanks; you are really very kind.”

“O, don’t mention it.”

The other made no objection to the pickpocket passing his arm through
his, and the two walked on together.

“He means to rob him,” thought Paul. “What can I do to prevent it?”

He didn’t quite like to make an accusation, though he remembered
the thief’s face perfectly, till he had some ground for warning the
intended victim. It might be that the pickpocket was merely taking the
part of the good Samaritan, though it was by no means probable.

The two men became sociable, and Paul was near enough to hear fragments
of the conversation. He gathered that the stranger was from St.
Louis--that he was visiting New York on a business errand, representing
a firm, of which his father was the head.

The pickpocket, who had been waiting only till he could gain the
stranger’s confidence, now felt that it was time to be carrying out his
plans. With dexterous fingers he managed to explore the pocket of his
companion, and Paul caught sight, quick as he was, of his appropriation
of his victim’s wallet.

“I shall have to leave you here,” said he, abruptly, having no further
motive for continuing the companionship. “Good night!”

“Good night!” said the stranger. “Sorry to lose your company!”

Paul was excited, as he might well be, for he saw that on him alone
depended the frustration of the thief’s plans.

“Stop thief!” he exclaimed, in a loud voice.

The thief looked startled, and turning into Thirty Seventh Street ran
towards Fifth Avenue.

Paul followed in close pursuit.

“Drop that wallet, or it will be worse for you!” exclaimed the
undaunted boy.

Had the night been dark, the thief would have taken the chances, and
retained his booty. But he was sure to attract attention, and might any
minute run into the arms of a policeman. The risk was too great.

“There, curse you!” he muttered, throwing down the wallet. “Now stop
following me!”

Paul picked up the pocketbook, and ceased the pursuit. He had
accomplished all he intended, and was willing to let the thief go free,
now that he had restored his plunder.

He retraced his steps to Sixth Avenue, where he found the stranger
waiting for him.

“Here is your pocketbook,” he said. “You have had a narrow escape.”

“By Jove! I should think I had,” answered the young man. “How much
money do you think there is in that wallet?”

“Is it a large sum?” asked Paul, his curiosity aroused.

“Fifteen hundred dollars--perhaps a little more. You’re a brave boy.
But for you I should have lost it.”

“I am very glad to have been of such service,” said Paul. “If the thief
only knew what a purse he had lost he would feel like murdering me.”

“What made you suspect him? You must have sharp eyes.”

“I believe I have,” answered Paul, “but I was watching him closely as I
walked behind. I knew him to be a pickpocket.”

“How was that?” asked the young man.

“I once saw him in the court room at the Tombs, being tried for theft.
I have not seen him since, but I recognized him at once. I saw him join
you, and I suspected his motive at once.”

“You saw my condition?”

“Yes, I saw that you were not yourself.”

“I had been making a fool of myself by drinking too much. I hope you
don’t drink?”

“No, sir, never.”

“You are wise. Will you walk with me to my hotel?”

“Yes, sir, where are you staying?”

“At the Albemarle. Do you know where it is?”

“O, yes,” answered Paul, smiling. He felt that he would hardly have
been fit for a telegraph boy if he had not known the location of a
hotel so well known.

“I have been spending the evening with a few friends who live in an
apartment house near the park. The punch was remarkably good, and I
drank more than was good for me. I suppose you wonder why I didn’t ride
home, instead of walking?”

“It would have been safer, at any rate.”

“I had a headache and thought I might walk it off. At any rate,
I should feel better for being in the open air. But I found some
difficulty in steering straight, as I dare say you noticed.”

“Yes, sir, I observed it.”

“Then this fellow came along. He offered to accompany me home, and I
never suspected that he was a thief. I am afraid you will think me
rather green.”

“O, no; the man’s appearance might easily deceive you.”

“It did not deceive you.”

“No, for I had seen him before. But will you pardon me for saying that
you were imprudent in carrying around so large a sum of money at this
late hour?”

“You are quite right. I was a fool, and I am willing to admit it.”

It was not long before Paul and his new friend reached the hotel, which
is in the block above the Fifth Avenue.

“Come upstairs with me,” said the young man.

“If you wish it,” answered Paul.

“I do; I have some business with you, but I won’t keep you long.”

Paul followed his new acquaintance into a handsomely furnished chamber
on the third floor. He involuntarily thought of the poor tenement house
room in which he and old Jerry made their home, and he wondered whether
it would ever be his fortune to be as well lodged as the traveler from
Missouri.
