great world had culminated in marriage. 
" Though I do think he might have paid us a little 
more attention than just to come the morning of the 
marriage," she said, when Gertrude had laid aside her 
hat and coat and seated herself in the glow of the cheer- 
ful blaze. " His letter to your father was very proper 
and respectful, but I should like the town to know there 
was absolutely nothing reprehensible or ungentlemanly 
about him. And we really shall not get acquainted with 
him at all. When one's daughters marry, a mother feels 
that she would like to know the sort of man to whom she 
is trusting her child." 
The weak, complaining tone was what Gertrude had 
heard all her life, but this aspect of the case had not 
presented itself with any special force. She had written 
freely to Agnes about Mr. Murray, she had sent several 
dutiful letters to her mother on the subject. 
" He is a very busy man, mamma, and it would have 
been hard for me to get away, since I was to resign my 
position. If I had been living at home he would have 
visited me here of course." 
"And you know I never did approve of this chasing 
round the world when one has a home. It robs a woman 
of delicacy and self-respect, and I think a man never 
feels quite the same about her. The proper thing would 
have been for you to come home as soon as you were 
engaged." 
To miss that delicious informality of calls morning 
noon or night, just as Mr. Murray had half an hour's 
leisure, would have taken away half the charm of the 
engagement. And truth to tell she needed her salary 
for her wedding outfit. 
" But Mrs. Townsend was like a mother to me," she 
interposed. 
"No woman can be like a mother who has never had 
a child. What does she know of the responsibilities, 
the anxieties ? And a person who has no more refined 
and womanly aim than running about the world and 
lecturing on all sorts of subjects ! I have often felt that 
it was not a suitable place for you, but you would have 
your own way. ' ' 
Gertrude made no reply. She could have persuaded 
Mr. Murray to come before, but she had admitted that 
the town was dull, the hotel very primitive, and she 
knew they could not well entertain a man used to all the 
appliances of rather luxurious living. She had tried 
hard not to have any sense of shame about the poverty, 
the sort of slipshod living, the lack of the little observ- 
ances of society, and her mother's inconsequence as well 
as the quality that seemed so like pretentiousness. A 
young man might have amused himself, she really was 
afraid it would prove tiresome to Mr. Murray, since they 
could not well go rambling about or sit out of doors. 
Her father appeared heartily delighted. She spent 
much of her time with Agnes who had planned every- 
thing out, it seemed. Luella was to be maid of honor in 
a light blue cashmere gown and picture hat ; the little 
girls were to wear white over pink slips and carry baskets 
of flowers. Gertrude had announced in the beginning 
that she was to be married in a dark blue cloth traveling 
costume, and blue hat, and go away directly, but she did 
finally consent to returning home for a half hour and 
cutting the bride cake. 
"If it could have been in the evening so that we 
might have had a dance," complained Luella, a little 
hurt also that she was not to walk up the aisle with an 
attendant. 
That there was no wedding trousseau to be shown and 
no gifts to amaze the townspeople was another grievance 
to Mrs. Maurice. Still, she had to admit that her son- 
in-law was distinguished looking and unexceptionable; 
cordial in his manner, and with no superior airs. She 
put on her black velvet gown and point lace, and it 
seemed as if all the town turned out at the church and 
dropped in to the reception. 
"I like him so much," Agnes said. "I am sure you 
will be happy. And Gertie, there is no pleasure like 
one's own home." 
Con Murray put his wife in the seat by the window, 
and sat down beside her, as they were starting out on 
their new life. Then he smiled at her and she thought 
there was no blessing in life like love. 
They were still in the midst of gayeties at Washington. 
Congress had been more than usually interesting, and 
there had been an influx of foreign visitors. As soon as 
Princess had gone home she had been sent for as there 
was something special that might never occur again. 
And now Mrs. Beaumanoir had come up, as much to 
welcome Uncle Con's wife as to have a glimpse of the 
giddy whirl. Gertrude found herself received with a 
cordiality that touched her, knowing the fine quality of 
these people. 
" And when you see how happy I mean to make him, 
and how much I shall love him, Princess," Gertrude 
exclaimed, when the young girl had come in to dine and 
go to the theatre afterward with them, as Uncle Con de- 
clared he wanted one little bit of her all to himself, 
" you will quite forgive me for taking him. And we are 
going to have a pretty home and gather all the girls in it 
as Mrs. Drayton does. We count on a great deal of 
you." 
Princess colored delicately. 
"I want you to forget that," she said, in a soft, ap- 
pealing tone. " I was hurt and jealous, for I thought 
then no one had so good a right to Uncle Con as I. 
Somehow we had never thought of his caring for any 
one. It was not because it wasjw/. I should have felt 
the same about Ruth or Kitty Saxon. And the knowl- 
edge came so suddenly upon me. But I am older and 
ever so much wiser, and when I knew that he cared for 
you and wanted you in his life — O Gertie, I am afraid 
I never could have forgiven you then if you had not 
loved him. And I was so glad ' ' 
There were tears in her beautiful eyes, yet she smiled 
through them like sunshine in a summer shower. Ger- 
trude clasped her in her arms. 
" And it was your lovely generosity that brought it all 
about. I sometimes wonder what my life would have 
been if you had not invited me to your splendid island ! 
Do you realize what munificent things you have done out 
of your unselfish soul, your desire that other people shall 
be happy? So few think of it. It has made my life 
radiantly complete, it has blessed Ruth Ensign and given 
her the dearest friend, a second mother. O, do you 
ever hear about Kitty Saxon ? ' ' 
"Yes," answered Princess, coloring vividly. Kitty's 
letters were peans of thanksgiving for all she had learned 
and enjoyed that summer. She was living a nobler, 
truer life, learning the duties of sister and daughter. 
Sometimes Princess read parts of them aloud to her 
mother, but the adoring praise from the full heart was 
meant for no eyes but hers and therefore sacred. 
"Kitty is very well and happy though nothing re- 
markable has happened to her. But it is queer," and she 
glanced up archly, " it was Uncle Con's idea altogether, 
the very goodness of it. He proposed we should invite 
some girls who were not likely to have a summering else- 
where." 
" And we never quite know all that will come out of a 
little kindness. It makes us quite humble and ashamed 
sometimes that we do not do more little things instead of 
waiting to do the great ones. Is that the weak things of 
the world confounding the wise ? " 
Certainly Uncle Con was very happy, and Gertie for all 
her fun and nonsense adored him. 
Princess wondered at times why the adoration, and the 
knowledge that another had the best right to her favorite 
uncle gave her no pain. He was still as charming and 
devoted to her. And the old plan that she should be the 
housekeeper in his pretty home would have been quite 
impracticable. She had so many duties to others. It 
was such a busy, happy world — yes, she was quite sure it 
was happy. 
There was a rather long wait between the second and 
third scene of the play that evening. Some one came 
down the aisle and paused to speak to Mr. Murray. 
Princess' face was in a rosy flush. Gertrude felt rather 
than saw it. 
This was Mr. Sevier. Mr. Murray had met him the 
day before and now introduced him to Gertrude. Then 
he leaned over and spoke to Princess. 
" I wonder," he asked, presently, of the gentleman sit- 
ting next to Princess, "if I could induce you to change 
seats with me. Mine is on the east aisle and equally de- 
sirable." 
"Oh, with pleasure," and the gentleman rose as he 
thought, " This must be that pretty little girl's lover." 
"Thank you very much," said Mr. Sevier. 
He took the seat and began a low conversation with 
Princess. He had been delighted to meet Mr. Murray, 
whom he had heard of through various channels, and 
had seen the notice of his marriage in the papers, as he 
was in some degree public property. 
"What a pretty young wife," he continued with a 
smile. 
Was she pretty? Yes, she looked so now with that 
serene and joyous smile. 
"She was my schoolmate," Princess answered. 
" And is she going to be aunt to all you girls? " he 
asked in an amused tone. 
"O no," smilingly. "He is mamma's brother, so 
he has only us Beaumanoirs in his train." 
Mr. Sevier nodded. 
" I have not seen you since Sunday. Where have you 
hidden yourself away ? " 
It was a very tender tone even if it was a whisper. 
" Mamma came up. And we have been so engrossed 
with my uncle." 
" I heard you were coming here to-night. I bought 
out a friend's interest on the chance of seeing you. But 
I began to think I never should find you. That large 
woman over yonder in the velvet coat hid you from my 
view." 
Princess leaned over a little to look. 
"And you were not at Mrs. Headley's last evening." 
The tone bespoke regret that was nattering, yet Prin- 
cess did not rejoice in it. 
" We found we had to send regrets in the morning." 
"I didn't stay at all late. I missed you and your 
cotisins in the dances." 
Mr. Sevier had a true Southerner's love for dancing. 
"But there were other girls that danced," she re- 
turned, archly, compelling herself to smile carelessly. 
He made a just perceptible motion of the shoulders. 
Then the curtain went up. They had come to the 
love scene of the play, that was almost a tragedy. The 
exquisite color of youth and sympathy, and perhaps a 
deeper feeling kept wandering over the sweet girl face. 
But at last triumphant love was crowned victor. 
"I was afraid it was not going to end right," Mr. 
Sevier said, with a little catch in his voice. " Plays have 
no excuse for ending unhappily." 
"I suppose real life has at times," Princess replied, 
gravely. 
"Love ought always to bring happiness in the end. 
The trials enhance the real value and strength of it. I 
know of course that it does not. ' ' 
They were pouring out into the aisles, friends bowing or 
speaking briefly. Mr. Murray glanced over Gertrude's 
shoulder and nodded assenting] y to the young man who 
took upon himself the protection of Princess. 
"Let us go and have* a little refreshment," Mr. 
Murray said. "I am thankful the wisacres have decided 
it is a good thing to eat late in the evening or before re- 
tiring. When your sympathies have been wrought upon 
there is a drain in the physical. Did you ever consider, 
Mr. Sevier, how many theories there are in regard to 
what you must do or refrain from, to keep the feeble 
spark of life in good shining order. Every few years 
there is a revolution and the old regulations are cast out. 
We still live. I believe there are more deaths of old 
people now than any time in the previous history of the 
world." 
" Then it would appear that old age is the thing we 
should beware of, since that seems most fatal." 
Mr. Murray laughed. "There are no old people any 
more until you do come to the death rate," he returned. 
They had a rather jolly little supper, and at the en- 
trance to the hotel Mr. Sevier said "good-night." 
"I have been hearing strange tales of you, demure 
little Miss Princess," began her uncle, in a teasing tone 
of confidence. " Pearl declared this morning that you 
had more admirers than the other girls, and that every 
time you went home there were so many lamentations 
they were forced to recall you at once. I did admire the 
aplomb of this young man to-night in asking a stranger 
to change seats with him." 
"'Nothing venture nothing have,'" appended Ger- 
trude. 
" He seems a very nice young fellow. But I expect to 
carry you up to the city with me. Will Washington be 
shrouded in mourning, or will they follow us? " 
"They are not in such solemn earnest as that," re- 
turned Princess, lightly. 
She was to stay with them. After Gertrude had seen 
her disposed of for the night, as she stood taking pins out 
of her laces and her hair, she said, 
"Mr. Sevier is very much in earnest. I do wonder if 
Princess " 
" Princess is hardly out of childhood. The idea ! " 
"Girlhood, you mean. And girls have fancies, and 
fancies ripen in congenial soil." 
" During the honeymoon it is your bounden duty to 
pay' attention to your own love-making," he said, with 
some half-laughing kisses. 
" And have no eyes or ears for any one' beside " 
" Your own familiar tyrant." 
But he was thinking how strange it was for little Prin- 
cess to be grown up enough to have a lover when it 
seemed only the other day that his sister Tessy was mar- 
ried to Leonard Beaumanoir. But then Sherburne was 
old enough to have a fling at the tree of knowledge. 
How the years had run on ! Children were the dial 
marks. 
CHAPTER XVI. 
TOLD IN A GLANCE. 
"LISTEN to this," said Mr. Murray the following 
 morning, as they sat over their breakfast. ' ' The 
next lecture in the Smithsonian course is to be to-night. 
And I have a mind to make you guess who is to distin- 
guish himself." 
"Because you think I have all the lecturers of note 
written down in the back part of my brain?" asked 
Gertrude, saucily. "Let me see — this is scientific, so it 
is not Mrs. Townsend." 
" You ungrateful girl ! I have half a mind to report 
you. Now Princess ! She has lost her chance." 
" Uncle Carew. He was here in the early part of the 
winter and addressed some convention." 
"You certainly will not make your fortune at guessing 
how many beans there are in the jar." 
"But we can both tell how many black beans make 
five," retorted Princess. "This is a problem. The 
other mere guesswork." 
" How trivial and inconsequent you both are ! And 
how soon old friends fade out of mind. Now in the sum- 
mer I remember so well that I could recall nearly every 
one who figured in it, when you girls, like a flock of 
sheep, went star-gazing and peered into closets and wash- 
bowls, and pans and cups, to see the beginnings of things, 
and you have forgotten the leader thereof." 
" O, not Professor Kenneth ! " cried Gertrude. 
"Why not, I should like to know? Have you fallen 
 
so far from your first ideal that you cannot admit any 
wisdom remaining in it ? " 
" He was not my ideal that I remember," said the 
young wife. " I really think, then, it was Bert Beauma- 
noir, but he had a divided heart for me. Can't we go 
and hear him ? Princess, wouldn't you like to? " 
" Yes," replied Princess, under her breath, with a sound 
almost like a sigh. It was not what she had meant to 
say, and now she was chilled with a sort of surprise that 
she had uttered it. 
" If there are no other engagements," she*continued, 
recovering her self-possession, and wondering if she had 
turned pale. 
" That is quite odd. O, let us go by all means. How 
do you get admitted?" and Gertrude glanced up. 
" I shall manage it some way. O " 
The waiter handed him a card. He glanced at it. 
"Bring the lady up here, and some hot coffee," he or- 
dered. 
The lady was Mrs. Beaumanoir. 
" O you lazy people," she exclaimed. " I am a fairy 
godmother who has come in a carriage, and it is a fine, 
sunny morning for driving. Aunt Julia and Ray offer 
you a luncheon as a reward for a visit. Violet has sent 
the carriage to be returned at one." 
"Capital. Take the ladies and I will join you at 
lunch. And Tessy, Professor Kenneth lectures to-night. 
Let us go and give him a welcome." 
"O yes, and hear direct from the boys. How did 
you know it?" 
He passed her over the paper and poured out a cup of 
coffee. 
" If you are going to drive you will need something to 
stir your blood. Meanwhile I will find out about this, 
and get admittance for half a dozen. When he catches 
sight of our eager faces, he will feel inspired. Then I 
have some other matters on hand. The day wanes." 
They all rose. It was a magnificent morning, ami 
Gertrude's one previous visit to Washington had been 
brief and hurried. This was delightful. The moments 
flew by on wings ; there was so much to see that they 
were a little late and found Mr. Murray before them. 
He had also invited Ray to join their evening entertain- 
ment, and she had accepted with delight. 
They dismissed the carriage, as they meant to have a 
little visit with Aunt Julia. 
"It's so odd to think Gertie Maurice should be your 
uncle's wife," exclaimed Ray, with a half eager, half sur- 
prised light in her eyes. " She has grown prettier, I am 
sure. I was once a little jealous that Uncle Win should 
admire her. What silly things girls are ! Except you, 
Princess. You were always sweet and wise." 
"Not always," said Princess, faintly. 
" And you like her ? You do not really mind ? " 
"I am afraid I was a little jealous once, as well." 
Princess laughed and flushed. " But she docs suit Uncle 
Con, and he loves her. I think they will be very 
happy." 
"If she loves him. You know we never did quite 
make her out. But you had her all the summer at Mel- 
chias. O, I shall be just delighted to see Professor Ken- 
neth. And Mrs. Kenneth sent me such a lovely invita- 
tion to visit them. Do you mean to go up to the city, 
Princess? Uncle Con says he intends to take you." 
" O, I must go home. I have been away so much." 
Princess seemed to herself in a sort of dream. She 
talked and said all the bright things that came into her 
mind, but there was another side to her that did not seem 
to warm up with all the gayety. Uncle Con made a good 
story out of the way Mr. Sevier had appropriated her, 
and Ray gave instances of his devotion that brought a 
bright color to her cheek. 
She had let it go on with a vague sort of consciousness 
that fate determined many things. She had been much 
admired, and of all the people she had met, Mr. Sevier 
pleased her most. She had more than once sheltered 
herself from other obtrusive attentions under the shadow 
of his regard. 
Her father had been proud of her pretty successes, 
much prouder than she knew. His disappointment about 
Sherburne did not decrease as time went on, the oppor- 
tunity the boy had thrown aside grew more important 
every day. And then Doctor Carew really was not en- 
thusiastic over him, while he had no end of praise for 
Bertram. So he had come to take a very fervent interest 
in his sweet, attractive daughter, and he liked young 
Sevier, who had a good family and some money back of 
him, and was quite a favorite with society mammas. He 
had a feeling of elation that Princess could hold her own 
so well with Pearl. And girls married sooner or later. 
Marriage really was best for them. His sister, Fanny, 
had gained nothing by staying single, he remembered. 
She had been twice as lovable and attractive after she 
was married. 
Princess would fain have excused herself from joining 
the party, but there was not a shadow of pretext. She 
had done nothing to tire herself out, she could not even 
conjure up a headache. There was some inexplicable 
shrinking that she was afraid to look into closely enough 
to give a reason. The Christmas visit had tried her reso- 
lution, but she was growing more steadfast in the path 
she considered honorable. If the engagement of Ruth 
could once be announced, she would have courage 
enough to go on bravely. 
There certainly was a fine audience. Intelligence was 
well represented, and society was not in the background. 
The winter's "fad" had been a renewed interest in in- 
tellectual pursuits. 
Professor Kenneth had taken on a little more flesh, 
and stood much more erect. Home life had developed 
the silent side of his nature, and his sister-in-law's in- 
fluence was slowly evolving the attractive man lying 
dormant. He had come to understand that mere per- 
sonality had much to do with enforcing truths and gain- 
ing attention, and that any advantage satisfactorily used 
for the good of mankind did not tend to personal vanity. 
He was so much more interesting than some of the re- 
cent speakers that he really delighted his audience. 
Now and then he half paused to appeal to his hearers, 
and in doing this he caught sight of Mr. Murray. He 
glanced again. That must be his wife. There was Mrs. 
Beaumanoir and Ray Stanwood and — yes, Princess, who 
had been so interested in all these subjects at Melchias. 
A thrill of pleasure sped through him that they had 
cared to come, and he received a new inspiration, his 
voice had a clearer sound. 
There was some applause when he had finished. He 
begged his immediate friends to excuse him a moment 
and hurried down, for he saw the party were in no haste 
to leave. 
" What a pleasant rencounter," he exclaimed, taking 
Mr. Murray's hand. You surprised all your friends 
finely, but I suppose congratulations are not amiss. You 
have many heartsome wishes, Mrs. Murray, from your 
old friends. And Mrs. Beaumanoir " 
As he took Princess' small hand in his, their eyes met. 
She was utterly unconscious of the betraying sweetness 
in hers, but she saw the knowledge in his that she knew 
then her heart had hungered for. She forgot Ruth, 
everything in the overwhelming revelation. He felt the 
hand tremble in his, he longed to hold it but there was 
Miss Stanwood with her charming smile. 
They all seemed to talk together as they went down 
the aisle, quite in the rear of the crowd. 
" It was a great surprise," Mr. Murray was explaining. 
" I saw it in this morning's paper, and I said we must 
come to swell the audience so you would not be chilled 
by empty seats. But we might have saved our pity. 
You had a very appreciative assemblage." 
" I am thankful for the pity, even, if that brought you," 
smiling with a transfiguring gladness. 
"O, the girls were eager for a chance to fill their 
minds once more with solid substance, after dancing and 
flirting all winter. Do you rush back to-night? " 
"O no. I have to attend a meeting to-morrow morn- 
ing, and I dine at night with some guests from Germany. 
Meanwhile — may I call upon you, Mrs. Beaumanoir ? 
Are you all staying together? " 
Tessy really longed to see him. He would know if 
matters were not going right with Sherburne. So they 
exchanged cards, and the professor found Princess' hand 
to press in it a meaning good-bye, since it did not evade 
him. 
The subtle consciousness that she was held in some- 
thing more exquisitely personal than mere esteem thrilled 
her with a power she could not quite control. She had 
been shutting it out for months, not even glancing at the 
possibility. Though she had a fine, sensitive organiza- 
tion she was not morbid. She did not covet what could 
not of right belong to her. And she recognized the fact 
that Ruth would have all the opportunities to foster a re- 
gard ; she would also have the silent influence of Mrs. 
Kenneth's affectionate preference. 
The intellectual life , had a great charm for her. She 
could content herself with the round of daily duties, and 
she was too retiring to enter any arena of thought her- 
self. She did almost envy Aunt Millicent her gift of at- 
tracting a wide and wonderful interest. She had written 
schoolgirl verses, one or two little things had been set to 
music by a friend who said they sang themselves. No 
one knew or ever would know how she would have liked 
being a genius and stirring the hearts of others. 
But she must be content to shine with reflected light, 
and for the last six months she had been accepting her 
duties as a daughter and sister with a sweetness that was 
almost resignation, that would attain to that grace by and 
by, though she knew it had not quite reached it yet. 
Giving up was not always resignation. 
She had been very happy during these weeks with 
Aunt Julia and Ray, and at Aunt Amory's. Every day 
had been full of pleasure, and praise that was not alto- 
gether flattery, the enjoyment that is so adorable in 
youth. She did like it. But she would not want a whole 
lifetime of it. Aunt Violet found better things, but 
then Aunt Violet had a husband and children, and Daisy 
might be a genius. 
She remembered that the old aunts, Miss Sherburne 
and Miss Carrick, had lived long single lives and were 
happy in their old age. But when a young girl not yet 
out of her teens, looks down the long, long years and 
does not see quite the thing she wants, no story of love 
to illumine life, the prospect is not inspiriting. Only 
one does not often indulge in such farsight, and neither 
can one live in the future. It has to be the present, first. 
So Princess had been making herself happy in the en- 
joyment of society. Pearl simply absorbed everything 
and took a delicious satisfaction. 
" The sort of pain in it," said Violet Osborne, one day, 
"is its evanescence. You know it is shifting, changing, 
dropping out. There are those two charming Fairfax 
girls that I should like to have a lifelong friendship with. 
They are going abroad in a fortnight for two years. 
Both will probably be married. Our lives will run on 
different lines. Then there is that lovely Celia Nixon. 
This is her father's last year as a representative, and he 
is disenchanted with politics. Celia will go back home 
and marry some one." 
"And Violet Osborne will go back to California and 
marry some one," said Pearl, imitating her cousin's tone 
of discouragement, at which the two others laughed. 
" Girls, marriage is the grand panacea after all. But let 
us not hurry too much. Life is still sweet." 
There had been so many happy marriages, Princess re- 
membered, so few unhappy ones. Did her mother have 
an ideal before she was married, and did her father just 
fill it, she wondered. 
She tried not to speculate on marriage, and said over 
some verses to make her sleepy. She had a great many 
to love her. Perhaps she and Bertram would be the sort 
of friends some famous people had been, and she could 
take a fervent interest in his life. 
A note came for her in the morning. " She must not 
forget they were to go to Celia Nixon's last reception, 
and to make some other calls. Then there was the 
dance at Mrs. Rheid's. She was to send her party gown 
over, to come to dinner and stay all night. The carriage 
would call at three. No excuses received. After that 
Uncle Con could take his turn." 
"O yes, mamma, I had almost forgotten about the 
dance. Mrs. Rheid has been so charming to us, and we 
are coming to the last of the gayeties. She goes to 
Florida next week. And Celia Nixon is such a lovely 
girl. O dear, to think you may never see some people 
again ! ' ' 
" And the professor is to call this afternoon." 
A quick rift of color went up the sweet, youthful face, 
and the eyes drooped with a peculiar consciousness. 
"You will like to talk to him about the boys. You 
will not miss me." 
" I think he will," said the mother, at a venture. " He 
was very glad to see you last night." 
"He was glad to see all of us. I can imagine the sur- 
prise and pleasure." 
A quick ear detected a certain tremulousness in the 
tone. But a young girl's heart was too sacred to be med- 
dled with. 
Only Tessy Beaumanoir had a secret, inexplicable 
sympathy with the patient, humble lover, whose self- 
esteem where Women were concerned was so small, and 
to whom this one girl-woman would be the love of a life- 
time. How different men were ! Leonard had rushed 
in at the very beginning of his fancy, and swept all be- 
fore him by his vehemence. Dared she give the lover 
any encouragement to take home with him ? 
The carriage came with the two girls and the maid. 
There was a curious embarrassment as Princess kissed 
her mother. And then she exclaimed in a breathless 
manner 
" Mamma, you will explain that I had to go." 
Miss Nixon's reception was rather sad with its fare- 
wells. The calls were made, the dinner dispatched, and 
Mrs. Amory superintended the toilettes of the three 
girls, whom she was to entrust to Mrs. Rheid for the 
evening. Pearl was in high spirits, Violet rather pensive 
and Princess thoughtful. 
She had need to be thoughtful. Mr. Sevier was early in 
the field. 
" What a lovely card ! " he exclaimed. " ' White and 
unwritten ' still. You see it even stirs me to poetry. I 
am almost ashamed to mark it up, but I wish ' ' 
"What do you wish? I may not be in a generous 
mood again this evening?" she returned with a smile. 
" O, there are three I am to keep for Mr. Rheid. He is 
going south with his mother. It has been a day of fare- 
wells." 
She took her card and made a little star at the three 
dances. 
"O, I wanted that mazourka especially," he said, in a 
disappointed tone. " And my wish was " 
" What is a wish worth that is so hard to remem- 
ber?" 
" It isn't hard to remember. It was — that I could be 
as sure of writing on some one's heart," in a low, plead- 
ing voice. 
" Mrs. Glasse's recipe — " with a smile of the utmost 
gayety she could command. 
" Yes, one has to have some influence in a heart before 
one can awake a lasting interest, or hope for a permanent 
impression." 
Princess colored with embarrassment. 
Some one else came to ask for her card. 
" O, you have taken too many," to Mr. Sevier. 
" Three is the utmost limit. You must revise them." 
He did it unwillingly. Then Mr. Rheid came as his 
was the opening dance. 
Mr. Sevier she noticed went over to the window and 
talked to a wall-flower who was neither young nor 
pretty, but who had a sister with both requisites. And 
Princess knew he was watching her. He came back to 
her at once. 
How had she allowed him to take this delicate air of 
appropriation with her? And why did she inwardly re- 
sent it now? It seemed as if she had liked him very 
much, but his demeanor made her think sharply of the 
future, and she did not want him in her future. She was 
sure of that now. A day or two ago she had not put 
the question to herself, for she was hoping there was 
no question. 
Then he went over to Violet, who was always ready to 
talk about Princess, and while he talked he wondered. 
" Do you think Miss Beaumanoir cares very much for 
Spencer Rheid ? " he asked. 
" It depends upon the sense in which you use the 
word. They are very friendly. Mrs. Rheid likes her 
above all the girls. She would keep her singing forever. 
And poor Spencer can't distinguish one tune from 
another. C) yes, I think he does know the ' Star Span- 
gled Banner ' when he can see the waving of the flags." 
" It would be martyrdom to live with one who had no 
soul for music." 
" No ear, simply in this case. He docs like the sound. 
And he dances well. You never would connect ' treason, 
stratagems nor spoils ' with him, he is so jolly and frank." 
"Spoils, if he became a politician ; stratagems if he 
were deeply in love. As for treason 
" You shall not traduce him to me. I am fond of him 
myself. ' ' 
Then Princess passed to a handsome young midship- 
man. They seemed to have something very amusing. 
Would his turn never come around again ? 
When it did come he was quite certain of his regard 
for her, but the very consciousness made him reticent. 
One could not lead up to love affairs in a ballroom. A 
look or a clasp of the hand might tell the tale if both 
understood or were mutally attracted. He could recall 
times when he had been thrilled with unmistakable pref- 
erence on her part. But now she seemed curiously on 
guard. Or was it because he was watching for an op- 
portunity ? 
There was a dainty little supper, but Spencer Rheid 
took her in when he found Pearl was engaged. He 
would have enjoyed the prettiest girl in the room, but 
when Pearl laughingly declined and Princess glanced up 
with irresistibly shy persuasion, he was comforted. 
The carriage came for them at one. Sevier saw her 
descending the stairs in her white wrap with its scarlet 
hood and ribbons. 
" O, are you going so soon ? " disappointedly. 
Some one had stopped the other girls on the landing. 
They were quite alone. Before she could answer he ex- 
claimed in a vehement tone : 
"Are you staying at the Amorys? Can I see you — 
to-morrow ? ' ' 
" Yes and no," returned Princess, steadying her voice 
and dropping her eyes after one glance at his. " I go 
there to-night. To-morrow is promised to my uncle. 
On Saturday we return to Sherburne." 
'•'But, Princess," under his breath. " If I dared call 
you my Princess " 
" O, your party are not going ! " cried some one who 
had just espied her as the two girls came trooping down 
the stairs. " Mrs. Rheid, come and stop this barbarous 
proceeding." 
"Remember Cinderella and have mercy upon us," 
exclaimed Pearl, laughingly. " For we never could out- 
live the mortification of going to rags before you all. 
And we have not even a glass slipper to attract the 
prince." 
Princess took Violet's arm and said a general good- 
night. 
" I do wish at times that we didn't have to go home so 
early," said Pearl, plaintively. "You just get into the 
spirit of the thing. You can sometimes coax mamma a 
little, and that is the reason I think she likes to send the 
carriage, and settle the responsibility upon us. It is too 
bad! " 
Princess shrank into the corner, her cheeks burning, 
her pulses throbbing, and an uncomfortable half con- 
demnation in her heart. She should have begun her 
care before. She must have known whither this devo- 
tion was tending. She was sorry and ashamed of having 
allowed him to come so near. Was it not coquetting ? 
Why could she not care for him ? He certainly was 
worthy of esteem. And she knew her father would in- 
terpose no objection. She had enjoyed his society, and 
he was intelligent ; one could always be proud of him. 
They had similar tastes, only — were his a little higher 
and finer ? for he liked Browning, and she had only gone 
as far as "Men and Women" in her understanding of 
the poet. And he knew so much about art, he had taken 
two vacations abroad. Even Uncle Amory approved of 
him. 
She fell asleep with the unanswerable " why " of youth 
beating up and down her brain. 
CHAPTER XVII. 
POISONING TRUTH. 
GERTRUDE MURRAY found a warm welcome 
at Sherburne House. The children remembered 
her. As for Uncle Con, the neighborhood turned out 
with invitations, and there were so many dinners and 
teas that the few days were lengthened into a full week. 
He had insisted all along that Princess should go home 
with them. 
"There is all the house to be furnished," he said, 
" and Gertrude must have some one to aid and abet her 
in all sorts of extravagance. You are to have the first 
choice of rooms, for we expect you to come early in Jan- 
uary and remain until after the day before Christmas. 
By that time we shall have spent all our money, and we 
will close our house, Gertie and I retiring to the back 
kitchen, so as to escape giving Christmas presents. No, 
Miss Princess, we shall not take any denial. We would 
not dare to go back without you. We should be 
mobbed." 
Violet wrote entreating letters as well. There were 
invitations, if the season was almost over. 
"Mr. Sevier is devoted to us," she announced. "I 
shrewdly suspect it is because we are next to the rose. 
Princess, you demure little midget, I am afraid you are 
dangerous, after all." 
Among her notes on Saturday morning was one from 
the gentleman himself, begging permission to have the 
pleasure of a brief visit at Sherburne. 
 
She had felt somehow between two fires, but this blaze 
came the nearest to scorching. She would go home 
with Uncle Con. There were so many relatives, and 
she had not seen them in months. 
She wrote a formal little note in reply to Mr. Sevier. 
It might have been taken out of an etiquette book. And 
he wondered if she were really sorry. It would not shut 
him entirely out of hope if she were. But at present 
there was no further step to take. 
Yes, one could not help liking Gertie Maurice in her 
new character, only it did seem to Princess as if she 
and Uncle Con were playing at being married, they said 
such amusing things to each other, and were so unsenti- 
mental. 
Gertrude was quite resolved that Princess should 
love her, and should miss nothing out of Uncle Con's 
tenderness. He insisted she should go to the hotel with 
them, but she felt Aunt Millicent had a claim on her. 
And there was Auntie Dell and the boys. 
The house seemed in the first stage of confusion. 
Workmen had loitered. But Gertie and Princess picked 
their way about it the next day, holding up their skirts, 
and being piloted around by Uncle Con. This was to 
be library, this smoking-room, and a den on the third 
floor where he could indulge in unlimited tempers when 
things went wrong. Now they could take their choice. 
"Your room must adjoin mine," declared Gertrude. 
" I may let the other girls in it when they deign to visit 
me, but it is not to be a guest chamber. We shall chris- 
ten it 'Princess' room.' And when I see anything that 
especially suggests you, for there are some articles that 
have a Princess-y air, I shall buy it at once." 
" How good you are to me." 
"I love you, Princess. All the happiness of my life 
has come through you." 
There was a general rejoicing at Doctor Carew's when 
she walked in upon them. They were so joyous and 
noisy, that Auntie Dell insisted it was equal to "a straw- 
berry festival in an orphan asylum." Bertram considered 
that he had the best claim to her, and though he had 
written her voluminous letters, there still seemed a great 
deal to say. Sherburne was rather lofty. His recent ex- 
periences had added a great deal to his wisdom, he 
thought, and it had taken on a severe and gloomy tinge, 
while its main indulgence was biting little sentences, 
some of them culled from extensive reading. The Carew 
children were wildly enthusiastic about her, except Ran- 
dolph who was so intent upon study that he had no eyes 
nor ears for anybody. 
Then there were a host of Murray cousins. 
" I sometimes feel as if I was related to half the world," 
Princess said mirthfully to Uncle Con. 
True, Morna Murray was the presiding genius of a 
Scottish castle, one son was out in China in the tea 
trade, another on the western coast, but Con and James 
and Densie were in the city, the two latter with homes 
and flocks of their own. 
Grandmamma Murray was smaller and lovelier than 
ever, with snowy white hair, pink cheeks and infantile 
complexion. For the last fifteen years she had bewailed 
the fact of her son Con being such a roaming fellow, and 
having no home or wife of his own. And now her last 
wish had been gratified. 
She took Gertrude to her heart with open arms. 
"My dear," she said in her soft tone, every word of 
which had a delicious lingering sound like music — Con, 
senior, said she had never spoiled her voice by scolding, 
which was true enough, — " My dear, all I'll ask of you 
is to love him and make him happy. He's waited a 
long while to settle, and that leaves fewer years for the 
joy, so you must improve every day. There's no fear of 
people having too much happiness, though they do say 
sorrow and care are a kind of discipline, but to my think- 
ing the good Lord doesn't send half that He is credited 
with but we make it up ourselves by our own wrong and 
careless doing." 
Grandmamma Murray made a feast to welcome the 
wife of her firstborn soni 
"O, are you not going?" Princess asked of Sher- 
burne,. He seemed so changed in these days that she 
hardly knew him, so lofty and captious and so frigidly 
polite at times. " Sherburne, what has happened ? " 
Sherburne was pacing the floor in a slow, melancholy 
fashion. He was rather hurt that Princess had not re- 
marked before that something had gone wrong with him. 
"The matter is that I can't endure to see you all go 
down to — Gertie Maurice, as if there had never been 
another woman in the world ! She is a selfish, heartless 
flirt, and schemed to make a good marriage. I don't see 
how she could take Uncle Con in after all his experience, 
but she blinded even him." 
The tone was one of sharp anger and the young fel- 
low's face was scarlet. 
Princess stood amazed. 
«Why — I thought — " hesitatingly, "that you liked 
her very much. Surely you did at Christmas." 
" I was a fool then ! I may as well confess that she 
used her bewildering arts on me. Pve haunted Mrs. 
Townsend's for a chance to talk to her. And I thought 
she did prefer me to the men who hung about her and at 
whom she laughed slily. Maybe if no one else had of- 
fered she would have married me, at least, have been en- 
gaged, but she threw me over fast enough when " 
He paused with a pricking sensation in the inner 
monitor called conscience. But he was too proud and 
too angry to amend the statement. 
Princess drew several long inspirations, her eyes grow- 
ing larger and deeper with indignation and surprise. 
" Did you really love her ? " The tone was tremulous 
and not far from tears. 
"Well — " he began to pace rapidly, and seemed to 
consider. "I liked her very much that day at the 
luncheon. She was so bright, and easy to talk to, and 
full of amusing suggestions. She has a way of spurring 
you up to your best. And I thought she was in earnest. 
After all she is just a young girl, younger than I am. 
Some people are engaged years," in an apologizing 
tone. 
"You didn't ask her to marry you?" Even inex- 
perienced Princess saw the folly of that. 
"Yes, I did. I am going to tell you all so you may 
understand the case. I don't care for the others," dis- 
dainfully. "And she admitted there was not any likeli- 
hood of her being married for years, and — I supposed she 
meant to wait. Girls say a good many queer inconse- 
quent things and wait to be coaxed and all that. Then 
I went to work in real earnest. I meant to study hard 
and be something for her sake. It was a great aim, you 
know, and roused all the courage within me." 
Princess thought of mamma's love, and papa's pride 
in him, and the little hurt at his preference for another 
course they had both been ambitious and solicitous for 
him to take. How papa would have been delighted to 
keep him near and watch his daily improvement and the 
growing into friendship as well as relationship. Couldn't 
all that affection inspire one ? Must it take the favor of 
some girl to rouse true ambition ? 
"Then Uncle Con asked her and she jumped at the 
chance. He's almost twice as old, but he can give her 
most of the things women think so much about. And 
position. There'll be lots of people to go down to Mrs. 
Con Murray, and plenty of society men ready to flirt 
with her. Admiration is the great thing with her. She 
isn't really pretty, but she's stylish, and has a curious 
kind of fascination, and she'll take wonderfully now. I 
am sorry for Uncle Con — that's all. And I'll get over 
it, only it seems as if the big aim of life was gone. O, 
you needn't look so horrified ! I shall not take to drink- 
ing. I've seen some fellows -silly drunk, and if I once 
got there myself I never could hold up my head after- 
ward. I'm not going to do anything desperate — no 
selfish woman is worth a man's going to ruin for her." 
Princess was really bewildered. Her sympathies were 
with her brother ; she was indignant that any woman 
should trifle with him, she was angry too that any one 
should not love him when he was so handsome and 
charming and knew so much, and could make a desir- 
able position for himself. Yet she was glad with a girl's 
contradictory soul that Gertrude had not consented to an 
engagement. 
Like a flash the delight of the last week went over her, 
the amusing love-making that always brought rifts of 
