shall I send you a lawyer?" 

" No ! " Mrs. Lander retorted ; and after a mo 
ment 's reflection she added, " I 'm goin to stay my 
month, and so you may tell him, and then I 'll see 
whetha he can make me pay for that breakage and 
the candles and suvvice. I 'm all wore out, as it is, 
and I ain 't fit to travel, now, and I don 't know when I 
shall be. Clementina, you can go and tell Maddalena 
to stop packin . Or, no ! Til do it." 

She left the room without further notice of the 
consul, who said ruefully to Clementina, " Well, I 've  
missed my chance, Miss Claxon, but I guess she 's 
done the wisest thing for herself." 

" Oh, yes, she 's not fit to go. She must stay, now, 
till it 's coola. Will you tell the landlo d, or shall " 

" I 'll tell him," said the vice-consul, and he had in 
the landlord. He received her message with the 
pleasure of a host whose cherished guests have con 
sented to remain a while longer, and in the rush of 
his good feeling he offered, if the charge for breakage 
seemed unjust to the vice-consul, to abate it; and 
since the signora had not understood that she was to 
pay extra for the other things, he would allow the 
vice-consul to adjust the differences between them ; it 
was a trifle, and he wished above all things to content 
the signora, for whom he professed a cordial esteem 
both on his own part and the part of all his family. 



" Then that lets me out for the present," said the 
vice-consul, when Clementina repeated Mrs. Lander 's 
acquiescence in the landlord 's proposals, and he took 
his straw hat, and called a gondola from the nearest 
traghettOj and bargained at an expense consistent with 
his salary, to have himself rowed back to his own 
garden-gate. 

The rest of the day was an era of better feeling 
between Mrs. Lander and her host than they had ever 
known, and at dinner he brought in with his own 
hand a dish which he said he had caused to be spe 
cially made for her. It was so tempting in odor and 
complexion that Mrs. Lander declared she must taste 
it, though as she justly said, she had eaten too much 
already ; when she had once tasted it she ate it all, 
against Clementina 's protestations ; she announced 
at the end that every bite had done her good, and 
that she never felt better in her life. She passed a 
happy evening, with renewed faith in the air of the 
lagoon ; her sole regret now was that Mr. Lander had 
not lived to try it with her, for if he had she was sure 
he would have been alive at that moment. 

She allowed herself to be got to bed rather earlier 
than usual; before Clementina dropped asleep she 
heard her breathing with long, easy, quiet respira 
tions, and she lost the fear of the landlord 's dish 
which had haunted her through the evening. She 
was awakened in the morning by a touch on her 
shoulder. Maddalena hung over her with a frightened 
face, and implored her to come and look at the sig- 
nora, who seemed not at all well. Clementina ran 



 

into her room, and found her dead. She must have 
died some hours before without a struggle, for the 
face was that of sleep, and it had a dignity and beauty 
which it had not worn in her life of self-indulgent 
wilfulness for so many years that the girl had never 
seen it look so before. 



XXXIV. 

THE vice-consul was not sure how far his powers 
went in the situation with which Mrs. Lander had 
finally embarrassed him. But he met the new diffi 
culties with patience, and he agreed with Clementina 
that they ought to see if Mrs. Lander had left any 
written expression of her wishes concerning the event. 
She had never spoken of such a chance, but had always 
looked forward to getting well and going home, so 
far as the girl knew, and the most careful search now 
brought to light nothing that bore upon it. In the 
absence of instructions to the contrary, they did what 
they must, and the body, emptied of its life of sense 
less worry and greedy care, was laid to rest in the 
island cemetery of Venice. 

When all was over, the vice-consul ventured an 
observation which he had hitherto delicately withheld. 
The question of Mrs. Lander 's kindred had already 
been discussed between him and Clementina, and he 
now felt that another question had duly presented 
itself. " You didn 't notice," he suggested, " anything 
like a will when we went over the papers ? " He had 
looked carefully for it, expecting that there might 



 

have been some expression of Mrs. Lander 's wishes in 
it. " Because," he added, " I happen to know that 
Mr. Milray drew one up for her; I witnessed it." 

" No," said Clementina, " I didn 't see anything of 
it. She told me she had made a will ; but she didn 't 
quite like it, and sometimes she thought she would 
change it. She spoke of getting you to do it ; I 
didn 't know but she had." 

The vice-consul shook his nead. " No. And these 
relations of her husband 's up in Michigan ; you don 't 
know where they live, exactly ? " 

" No. She neva told me ; she wouldn 't ; she didn 't 
like to talk about them ; I don 't even know their 
names." 

The vice-consul thoughtfully scratched a corner of 
his chin through his beard. " If there isn 't any will, 
they 're the heirs. I used to be a sort of wild-cat 
lawyer, and I know that much law." 

"Yes," said Clementina. " She left them five 
thousand dollas apiece. She said she wished she had 
made it ten." 

" I guess she 's made it a good deal more, if she 's 
made it anything. Miss Claxon, don 't you under 
stand that if no will turns up, they come in for all 
her money ? " 

"Well, that 's what I thought they ought to do," 
said Clementina. 

"And do you understand that if that 's so, you 
don 't come in for anything? You must excuse me 
for mentioning it ; but she 's told everybody that you 
were to have it, and if there 's no will " 



 

He stopped and bent an eye of lack-lustre compas 
sion on the girl, who replied, " Oh, yes. I know that ; 
it 's what I always told her to do. I didn 't want it." 

" You didn 't want it ? " 

" No." 

" Well ! " The vice-consul stared at her, but he 
forbore the comment that her indifference inspired. 
He said after a pause, " Then what we 've  got to do is 
to advertise for the Michigan relations, and let em 
take any action they want to." 

"That 's the only thing we could do, I presume." 

This gave the vice-consul another pause. At the 
end of it he got to his feet. " Is there anything I 
can do for yow, Miss Claxon ? " 

She went to her portfolio and produced Mrs. Lan 
der 's letter of credit. It had been made out for three 
thousand pounds, in Clementina 's name as well as her 
own ; but she had lived wastef ully since she had come 
abroad, and little money remained to be taken up. 
With the letter Clementina handed the vice-consul the 
roll of Italian and Austrian bank-notes which she had 
drawn when Mrs. Lander decided to leave Venice; 
they were to the amount of several thousand lire and 
gulden. She offered them with the insensibility to 
the quality of money which so many women have, and 
which is always so astonishing to men. " What must 
I do with these ? " she asked. 

" Why, keep them ! " returned the vice-consul on 
the spur of his surprise. 

" I don 't know as I should have any right to," said 
Clementina. " They were hers." 



 

" Why, but " The vice-consul began his protest, 
but he could not end it logically, and he did not end 
it at all. He insisted with Clementina that she had 
a right to some money which Mrs. Lander had given 
her during her life ; he took charge of the bank-notes 
in the interest of the possible heirs, and gave her his 
receipt for them. In the meantime he felt that he 
ought to ask her what she expected to do. 

" I think," she said, " I will stay in Venice awhile." 

The vice-consul suppressed any surprise he might 
have felt at a decision given with mystifying cheer 
fulness. He answered, Well, that was right ; and for 
the second time he asked her if there was anything 
he could do for her. 

" Why, yes," she returned. " I should like to stay 
on in the house here, if you could speak for me to the 
padrone." 

" I don 't see why you shouldn t, if we can make 
the padrone understand it 's different." 

"You mean about the price?" The vice-consul 
nodded. " That 's what I want you should speak to 
him about, Mr. Bennam, if you would. Tell him that 
I haven 't got but a little money now, and he would 
have to make it very reasonable. That is, if you think 
it would be right for me to stay, afta the way he 
tried to treat Mrs. Lander." 

The vice-consul gave the point some thought, and 
decided that the attempted extortion need not make 
any difference with Clementina, if she could get the 
right terms. He said he did not believe the padrone 
was a bad fellow, but he liked to take advantage of a 



 

stranger when he could ; we all did. When he came 
to talk with him he found him a man of heart if not 
of conscience." He entered into the case with the 
prompt intelligence and vivid sympathy of his race, 
and he made it easy for Clementina to stay till she 
had heard from her friends in America. For himself 
and for his wife, he professed that she could not stay 
too long, and they proposed that if it would content 
the signorina still further they would employ Madda- 
lena as chambermaid till she wished to return to 
Florence ; she had offered to remain if the signorina 
stayed. 

" Then that is settled," said Clementina with a sigh 
of relief ; and she thanked the vice-consul for his offer 
to write to the Milrays for her, and said that she 
would rather write herself. 

She meant to write as soon as she heard from Mr. 
Hinkle, which could not be long now, for then she 
could be independent of the offers of help which she 
dreaded from Miss Milray, even more than from Mrs. 
Milray ; it would be harder to refuse them ; and she 
entered upon a passage of her life which a nature less 
simple would have found much more trying. But she 
had the power of taking everything as if it were as 
much to be expected as anything else. If nothing at 
all happened she accepted the situation with implicit 
resignation, and with a gayety of heart which availed 
her long, and never wholly left her. 

While the suspense lasted she could not write home 
as frankly as before, and she sent off letters to Mid- 
dlemount which treated of her delay in Venice with 



 

helpless reticence. They would have set another sort 
of household intolerably wondering and suspecting, 
but she had the comfort of knowing that her father 
would probably settle the whole matter by saying that 
she would tell what she meant when she got round to 
it ; and apart from this she had mainly the comfort of 
the vice-consul 's society. He had little to do besides 
looking after her, and he employed himself about this 
in daily visits which the padrone and his wife regarded 
as official, and promoted with a serious respect for the 
vice-consular dignity. If the visits ended, as they 
often did, in a turn on the Grand Canal, and an ice 
in the Piazza, they appealed to the imagination of 
more sophisticated witnesses, who decided that the 
young American girl had inherited the millions of the 
sick lady, and become the betrothed of the vice-consul, 
and that they were thus passing the days of their en 
gagement in conformity to the American custom, how 
ever much at variance with that of other civilizations. 
This view of the affair was known to Maddalena, 
but not to Clementina, who in those days went back 
in many things to the tradition of her life at Middle- 
mount. The vice-consul was of a tradition almost as 
simple, and his longer experience set no very wide in 
terval between them. It quickly came to his telling 
her all about his dead wife and his married daughters, 
and how, after his home was broken up, he thought 
he would travel a little and see what that would do 
for him. He confessed that it had not done much ; 
he was always homesick, and he was ready to go as 
soon as the President sent out a consul to take his 



 

job off his hands. He said that he had not enjoyed 
himself so much since he came to Venice as he was 
doing now, and that he did not know what he should 
do if Clementina first got her call home. He betrayed 
no curiosity as to the peculiar circumstances of her 
stay, but affected to regard it as something quite nor 
mal, and he watched over her in every way with a 
fatherly as well as an official vigilance which never 
degenerated into the semblance of any other feeling. 
Clementina rested in his care in entire security. 
The world had quite fallen from her, or so much of 
it as she had seen at Florence, and in her indifference 
she lapsed into life as it was in the time before that 
with a tender renewal of her allegiance to it. There 
was nothing in the conversation of the vice-consul to 
distract her from this ; and she said and did the things 
at Venice that she used to do at Middlemonnt, as 
nearly as she could ; to make the days of waiting pass 
more quickly, she tried to serve herself in ways that 
scandalized the proud affection of Maddalena. It was 
not fit for the signorina to make her bed or sweep her 
room ; she might sew and knit if she would ; but these 
other things were for servants like herself. She con 
tinued in the faith of Clementina 's gentility, and saw 
her always as she had seen her first in the brief hour 
of her social splendor in Florence. Clementina tried 
to make her understand how she lived at Middlemount, 
but she only brought before Maddalena the humiliat 
ing image of a contadina, which she rejected not only 
in Clementina 's behalf, but that of Miss Milray. She 
told her that she was laughing at her, and she was 



 

fixed in her belief when the girl laughed at that 
notion. Her poverty she easily conceived of ; plenty 
of signorine in Italy were poor ; and she protected 
her in it with the duty she did not divide quite evenly 
between her and the padrone. 

The date which Clementina had fixed for hearing 
from Hinkle by cable had long passed, and the time 
when she first hoped to hear from him by letter had 
come and gone. Her address was with the vice-con 
sul as Mrs. Lander 's had been, and he could not be 
ignorant of her disappointment when he brought her 
letters which she said were from home. On the sur 
face of things it could only be from home that she 
wished to hear, but beneath the surface he read an 
anxiety which mounted with each gratification of this 
wish. He had not seen much of the girl while Hin 
kle was in Venice ; Mrs. Lander had not begun to 
make such constant use of him until Hinkle had gone ; 
Mrs. Milray had told him of Clementina 's earlier 
romance, and it was to Gregory that the vice-consul 
related the anxiety which he knew as little in its nature 
as in its object. 

Clementina never doubted the good faith or con 
stancy of her lover ; but her heart misgave her as to 
his well-being when it sank at each failure of the vice- 
consul to bring her a letter from him. Something 
must have happened to him, and it must have been 
something very serious to keep him from writing ; or 
there was some mistake of the post-office. The vice- 
consul indulged himself in personal inquiries to make 
sure that the mistake was not in the Venetian post- 




office ; but he saw that he brought her greater distress 
in ascertaining the fact. He got to dreading a look 
of resolute cheerfulness that came into her face, when 
he shook his head in sign that there were no letters, 
and he suffered from the covert eagerness with which 
she glanced at the superscriptions of those he brought 
and failed to find the hoped-for letter among them. 
Ordeal for ordeal, he was beginning to regret his 
trials under Mrs. Lander. In them he could at least 
demand Clementina 's sympathy, but against herself 
this was impossible. Once she noted his mute dis 
tress at hers, and broke into a little laugh that he 
found very harrowing. 

" I guess you hate it almost as much as I do, Mr. 
Bennam." 

" I guess I do. I 've  half a mind to write the letter 
you want, myself." 

" I 've  half a mind to let you or the letter Pd like 
to write." 

It had come to her thinking she would write again 
to Hinkle ; but she could not bring herself to do it. 
She often imagined doing it ; she had every word of 
such a letter in her mind ; and she dramatized every 
fact concerning it from the time she should put pen 
to paper, to the time when she should get back the 
answer that cleared the mystery of his silence away. 
Her fond reveries helped her to bear her suspense ; 
they helped to make the days go by, to ease the doubt 
with which she lay down at night, and the heartsick 
hope with which she rose up in the morning. 

One dav, at the hour of his wonted visit, she saw 



 

the vice-consul from her balcony coming, as it seemed 
to her, with another figure in his gondola, and a 
thousand conjectures whirled through her mind, and 
then centred upon one idea. After the first glance 
she kept her eyes down, and would not look again 
while she told herself incessantly that it could not 
be, and that she was a fool and a goose and a perfect 
coot, to think of such a thing for a single moment. 
When she allowed herself, or forced herself, to look 
a second time, as the boat drew near, she had to cling 
to the balcony parapet for support, in her disappoint 
ment. 

The person whom the vice-consul helped out of the 
gondola was an elderly man like himself, and she took 
a last refuge in the chance that he might be Hinkle 's 
father, sent to bring her to him because he could not 
come to her ; or to soften some terrible news to her. 
Then her fancy fluttered and fell, and she waited 
patiently for the fact to reveal itself. There was 
something countrified in the figure of the man, and 
something clerical in his face, though there was noth 
ing in his uncouth best clothes that confirmed this 
impression. In both face and figure there was a vague 
resemblance to some one she had seen before, when 
the vice-consul said : 

" Miss Claxon, I want to introduce the Rev. Mr. 
James B. Orson, of Michigan." Mr. Orson took 
Clementina 's hand into a dry, rough grasp, while he 
peered into her face with small, shy eyes. The vice- 
consul added with a kind of official formality, " Mr. 
Orson is the half-nephew of Mr. Lander," and then 




ONE DAY SHE SAW THE VICE-CONSUL FROM HER BALCONY. 



 

Clementina now knew whom it was that he resembled. 
u He has come to Venice," continued the vice-consul, 
" at the request of Mrs. Lander ; and he did not know 
of her death until I informed him of the fact. I 
should have said that Mr. Orson is the son of Mr. 
Lander 's half-sister. He can tell you the balance 
himself." The vice-consul pronounced the conclud 
ing word with a certain distaste, and the effect of 
gladly retiring into the background. 

" Won 't you sit down ? " said Clementina, and she 
added with one of the remnants of her Middlemount 
breeding, " Won 't you let me take your hat ? " 

Mr. Orson in trying to comply with both her invi 
tations, knocked his well worn silk hat from the hand 
that held it, and sent it rolling across the room, where 
Clementina pursued it and put it on the table. 

" I may as well say at once," he began in a flat ir- 
resonant voice, " that I am the representative of Mrs. 
Lander 's heirs, and that I have a letter from her 
enclosing her last will and testament, which I have 
shown to the consul here " 

"Vice-consul," the dignitary interrupted with an 
effect of rejecting any part in the aifair. 

" Vice-consul, I should say, and I wish to lay them 
both before you, in order that " 

" Oh, that is all right," said Clementina sweetly. 
" I 'm glad there is a will. I was afraid there wasn 't 
any at all. Mr. Bennarn and I looked for it every - 
whe e." She smiled upon the Rev. Mr. Orson, who 
silently handed her a paper. It was the will which 
Milray had written for Mrs. Lander, and which, with 



 

whatever crazy motive, she had sent to her husband 's 
kindred. It provided that each of them should be 
given five thousand dollars out of the estate, and that 
then all should go to Clementina. It was the will 
Mrs. Lander told her she had made, but she had never 
seen the paper before, and the legal forms hid the 
meaning from her so that she was glad to have the 
vice-consul make it clear. Then she said tranquilly, 
" Yes, that is the way I supposed it was." 

Mr. Orson by no means shared her calm. He did 
not lift his voice, but on the level it had taken it be 
came agitated. " Mrs. Lander gave me the address 
of her lawyer in Boston when she sent me the will, 
and I made a point of calling on him when I went 
East, to sail. I don 't know why she wished me to 
come out to her, but being sick, I presume she nat 
urally wished to see some of her own family." 

He looked at Clementina as if he thought she 
might dispute this, but she consented at her sweetest, 
" Oh, yes, indeed," and he went on : 

" I found her affairs in a very different condition 
from what she seemed to think. The estate was 
mostly in securities which had not been properly 
looked after, and they had depreciated until they were 
some of them not worth the paper they were printed 
on. The house in Boston is mortgaged up to its full 
value, I should say ; and I should say that Mrs. Lan 
der did not know where she stood. She seemed to 
think that she was a very rich woman, but she lived 
high, and her lawyer said he never could make her 
understand how the money was going. Mr. Lander 



 

seemed to lose his grip, the year he died, and engaged 
in some very unfortunate speculations ; I don 't know 
whether he told her. I might enter into details" 

" Oh, that is not necessary," said Clementina, po 
litely, witless of the disastrous quality of the facts 
which Mr. Orson was imparting. 

" But the sum and substance of it all is that there 
will not be more than enough to pay the bequests to 
her own family, if there is that." 

Clementina looked with smiling innocence at the 
vice-consul. 

"That is to say," he explained, "there won 't be 
anything at all for you, Miss Claxon." 

" Well, that 's what I always told Mrs. Lander I 
rather, when she brought it up. I told her she ought 
to give it to his family," said Clementina, with a sat 
isfaction in the event which the vice-consul seemed 
unable to share, for he remained gloomily silent. 
" There is that last money I drew on the letter of 
credit, you can give that to Mr. Osson." 

" I have told him about that money," said the vice- 
consul, dryly. "It will be handed over to him when 
the estate is settled, if there isn 't enough to pay the 
bequests without it." 

" And the money which Mrs. Landa gave me before 
that," she pursued, eagerly. Mr. Orson had the effect 
of pricking up his ears, though it was in fact merely 
a gleam of light that came into his eyes. 

" That 's yours" said the vice-consul, sourly, almost 
savagely. " She didn 't give it to you without she 
wanted you to have it, and she didn 't expect you to 

pay her bequests with it. In my opinion," he burst 
out, in a wrathful recollection of his own sufferings 
from Mrs. Lander, " she didn 't give you a millionth 
part of your due for all the trouble she made you ; 
and I want Mr. Orson to understand that, right here." 

Clementina turned her impartial gaze upon Mr. 
Orson as if to verify the impression of this extreme 
opinion upon him ; he looked as if he neither accepted 
nor rejected it, and she concluded the sentence which 
the vice-consul had interrupted. " Because I rather 
not keep it, if there isn 't enough without it." 

The vice-consul gave way to violence. " It 's none 
of your business whether there 's enough or not. What 
you 've  got to do is to keep what belongs to you, and 
I 'm going to see that you do. That 's what I 'm here 
for." If this assumption of official authority did not 
awe Clementina, at least it put a check upon her head 
long self-sacrifice. The vice-consul strengthened his 
hold upon her by asking, "What would you do. I 
should like to know, if you gave that up ? " 

" Oh, I should get along," she returned, light-heart 
edly, but upon questioning herself whether she should 
turn to Miss Milray for help, or appeal to the vice- 
consul himself, she was daunted a little, and she 
added, " But just as you say, Mr. Bennam." 

" I say, keep what fairly belongs to you. It 's only 
two or three hundred dollars at the outside," he ex 
plained to Mr. Orson 's hungry eyes ; but perhaps the 
sum did not affect the country minister 's imagination 
as trifling; his yearly salary must sometimes have 
been little more. 



 

The whole interview left the vice-consul out of hu 
mor with both parties to the affair; and as to Clem 
entina, between the ideals of a perfect little saint, and 
a perfect little simpleton he remained for the present 
unable to class her. 



XXXV. 

CLEMENTINA and the vice-consul afterwards agreed 
that Mrs. Lander must have sent the will to Mr. Orson 
in one of those moments of suspicion when she dis 
trusted everyone about her, or in that trouble concern 
ing her husband 's kindred which had grown upon her 
more and more, as a means of assuring them that they 
were provided for. 

" But even then," the vice-consul concluded, " I 
don 't see why she wanted this man to come out here. 
The only explanation is that she was a little off her 
base towards the last. That 's the charitable suppo 
sition." 

" I don 't think she was herself, some of the time," 
Clementina assented in acceptance of the kindly construction. 

The vice-consul modified his good will toward Mrs. 
Lander 's memory so far as to say, "Well, if she'd 
been somebody else most of the time, it would have 
been an improvement." 

The talk turned upon Mr. Orson, and what he would 
probably do. The vice-consul had found him a cheap 
lodging, at his request, and he seemed to have settled 



 

down at Venice either without the will or without the 
power to go home, but the vice-consul did not know 
where he ate, or what he did with himself except at 
the times when he came for letters. Once or twice 
when he looked him up he found him writing, and 
then the minister explained that he had promised to 
"correspond" for an organ of his sect in the North 
west ; but he owned that there was no money in it. 
He Avas otherwise reticent and even furtive in his 
manner. He did not seem to go much about the city, 
but kept to his own room ; and if he was writing of 
Venice it must have been chiefly from his acquaintance with the little court into which his windows 
looked. He affected the vice-consul as forlorn and 
helpless, and he pitied him and rather liked him as a 
fellow-victim of Mrs. Lander. 

One morning Mr. Orson came to see Clementina, 
and after a brief passage of opinion upon the weather, 
he fell into an embarrassed silence from which he 
pulled himself at last with a visible effort. " I hardly 
know how to lay before you what I have to say, Miss 
Claxon," he began, " and I must ask you to put the 
best construction upon it. I have never been reduced 
to a similar distress before. You would naturally 
think that I would turn to the vice-consul, on such an 
occasion ; but I feel, through our relation to the to 
Mrs. Lander ah somewhat more at home with you." 

He stopped, as if he wished to be asked his busi 
ness, and she entreated him, " Why, what is it, Mr. 
Osson? Is there something I can do? There isn 't 
anything I wouldn 't ! " 



 

A gleam, watery and faint, which still could not be 
quite winked away, came into his small eyes. " Why, 
the fact is, could you ah advance me about five 
dollars ? " 

" Why, Mr. Osson ! " she began, and he seemed to 
think she wished to withdraw her offer of help, for 
he interposed. 

" I will repay it as soon as I get an expected remit 
tance from home. I came out on the invitation of 
Mrs. Lander, and as her guest, and I supposed " 

" Oh, don 't say a wo'd ! " cried Clementina, but 
now that he had begun he was powerless to stop. 

" I would not ask. but my landlady has pressed me 
for her rent I suppose she needs it and I have 
been reduced to the last copper " 

The girl whose eyes the tears of self pity so rarely 
visited, broke into a sob that seemed to surprise her 
visitor. But she checked herself as with a quick in 
spiration : " Have you been to breakfast ? " 

" Well ah not this morning," Mr. Orson admit 
ted, as if to imply that having breakfasted some other 
morning might be supposed to serve the purpose. 

She left him and ran to the door. u Maddalena, 
Maddalena ! " she called ; and Maddalena responded 
with a frightened voice from the direction of the 
kitchen : 

" Vengo subito ! " 

She hurried out with the coffee-pot in her hand, as 
if she had just taken it up when Clementina called; 
and she halted for the whispered colloquy between 
them which took place before she set it down on the 




table already laid for breakfast ; then she hurried out 
of the room again. She came back with a cantaloupe 
and grapes, and cold ham, and put them before Clem 
entina and her guest, who both ignored the hunger 
with which he swept everything before him. When 
his famine had left nothing, he said,, in decorous com 
pliment : 

"That is very good coffee, I should think the 
genuine berry, though I am told that they adulterate 
coffee a great deal in Europe." 

" Do they ? " asked Clementina. " I didn 't know 
it." 

She left him still sitting before the table, and came 
back with some bank-notes in her hand. " Are you 
sure you hadn 't betta take moa ? " she asked. 

" I think that five dollars will be all that I shall 
require," he answered, with dignity. "I should be 
unwilling to accept more. I shall undoubtedly receive 
some remittances soon." 

" Oh, I know you will," Clementina returned, and 
she added, " I am waiting for lettas myself ; I don 't 
think any one ought to give up." 

The preacher ignored the appeal which was in her 
tone rather than her words, and went on to explain at 
length the circumstances of his having come to Europe 
so unprovided against chances. When he wished to 
excuse his imprudence, she cried out, " Oh, don 't say 
a wo'd ! It 's just like my own fatha," and she told 
him some things of her home which apparently did 
not interest him very much. He had a kind of dull, 
cold self-absorption in which he was indeed so little 



 

like her father that only her kindness for the lonely 
man could have justified her in thinking there was 
any resemblance. 

She did not see him again for a week, and mean 
time she did not tell the vice-consul of what had hap 
pened. But an anxiety for the minister began to 
mingle with her anxieties for herself; she constantly 
wondered why she did not hear from her lover, and 
she occasionally wondered whether Mr. Orson were 
not falling into want again. She had decided to be 
tray his condition to the vice-consul, when he came, 
bringing the money she had lent him. He had 're 
ceived a remittance from an unexpected source, and he 
hoped she would excuse his delay in repaying her loan. 
She wished not to take the money, at least till he was 
quite sure he should not want it, but he insisted. 

"I have enough to keep me, now, till I hear from 
other sources, with the means for returning home. I 
see no object in continuing here, under the circum 
stances." 

In the relief which she felt for him Clementina 's 
heart throbbed with a pain which was all for herself. 
Why should she wait any longer either? For that 
instant she abandoned the hope which had kept her 
up so long ; a wave of homesickness overwhelmed her. 

" I should like to go back, too," she said. " I don 't 
see why I 'm staying. Mr. Osson, why can 't you let 
me " she was going to say " go home with you ? " 
But she really said what was also in her heart, " Why 
can 't you let me give you the money to go home ? It 
is all Mrs. Landa 's money, anyway." 



 

" There is certainly that view of the matter," he 
assented with a promptness that might have suggested 
a lurking grudge for the vice-consul 's decision that 
she ought to keep the money Mrs. Lander had given 
her. 

But Clementina urged unsuspiciously: "Oh, yes, 
indeed ! And I shall feel better if you take it. I 
only wish I could go home, too ! " 

The minister was silent while he was revolving, 
with whatever scruple or reluctance, a compromise 
suitable to the occasion. Then he said, "Why should 
we not return together ? " 

" Would you take me ? " she entreated. 

" That should be as you wished. I am not much 
acquainted with the usages in such matters, but I pre 
sume that it would be entirely practicable. We could 
ask the vice-consul." 

"Yes" 

" He must have had considerable experience in 
cases of the kind. Would your friends meet you in 
New York, or " 

" I don 't know," said Clementina with a pang for 
the thought of a meeting she had sometimes fancied 
there, when her lover had come out for her, and her 
father had been told to come and receive them. 
" No," she sighed, " the e wouldn 't be time to let 
them know. But it wouldn 't make any difference. I 
could get home from New Yo k alone," she added, 
listlessly. Her spirits had fallen again. She saw 
that she could not leave Venice till she had heard 
in some sort from the letter she had written. " Per- 



 

haps it couldn 't be done, after all. But I will see Mr. 
Bcnnam about it, Mr. Osson ; and I know lie will want 
you to have that much of the money. He will be 
coming he e, soon." 

He rose upon what he must have thought her hint, 
and said, u I should not wish to have him swayed 
against his judgment." 

The vice-consul came not long after the minister 
had left her, and she began upon what she wished to 
do for him. 

The vice-consul was against it. " I would rather 
lend him the money out of my own pocket. How arc 
you going to get along yourself, if you let him have 
so much ? " 

She did not answer at once. Then she said, hope 
lessly, " Tve a great mind to go home with him. I 
