like the Bentons he would find it much more agreeable. If they, with the
help of the eight dollars a month, which his rent cost him, could take a
small flat, it would be a good arrangement all round.
At present there were difficulties in the way, as they were unable to
raise even the small rent which they were paying now. Still
circumstances might change. He resolved to keep up the acquaintance, and
watch for some way of helping Mr. Benton to a better position. Even ten
dollars a week would be a poor salary for a good dry-goods salesman, yet
upon this he would be able to live comfortably.
Rupert had the curiosity to enter a drug store and look up the name of
Mr. Lorimer in the directory. He ascertained that the dry-goods merchant
lived on Lexington Avenue, between Thirty-fourth and Thirty-fifth
Streets. This was a desirable location, and the house, as he afterwards
learned, was a handsome, high-stoop residence, probably worth
twenty-five thousand dollars.
But Rupert did not envy his father's old partner. "I would rather be
poor and honest," he reflected, "than live in a fine house, surrounded
by luxury, gained by grinding the faces of the poor."
CHAPTER XV.
MR. SYLVESTER'S BIRTHDAY.
The next day Rupert received a letter at the Somerset Hotel. It was
signed by Frank Sylvester, and ran thus:
     "DEAR RUPERT: To-morrow is my birthday. Come and spend the evening
     with me. I will wait dinner till you come.
     "Your Friend,
     "FRANK SYLVESTER."
Rupert decided at once to accept the invitation. He had learned to like
Sylvester, as indeed he had reason to do.
He was in doubt as to whether there would be much company, but he was
not provided with a nice suit, so that he need not be ashamed of his
appearance. Arrived at his friend's residence, he found to his surprise
that there was but one other guest besides himself, a Mr. Maxwell, a
stout, pleasant-looking man of forty-five.
"Rupert," said Sylvester, "this is my cousin, John Maxwell. He is not
an idler like myself, but is a partner in a large dry-goods house down
on Grand Street. John, this is a special friend of mine. When we first
met he was able to do me a service which I shall long remember. I am
rather young to adopt him, having only reached the age of twenty-five."
"Quarter of a century," laughed Maxwell.
"That sounds older, to be sure. At any rate I look upon him as a younger
brother, and so have invited him here to my birthday dinner, as a
relative."
"You don't seem to have many relatives, Mr. Sylvester," said Rupert. "I
thought there might be quite a party."
"Most of my relatives live in the West. However, I am satisfied to have
you here and my Cousin John."
"If you are Frank's brother, I suppose I am your cousin also, Rupert,"
said Mr. Maxwell.
"I shall feel proud to have you regard me so, Mr. Maxwell."
"May I ask if you are in the same business as Frank?"
"Doing nothing at all," laughed Sylvester.
"I am a bell-boy at the Somerset Hotel," answered Rupert.
He watched Maxwell to see if the revelation of his position would affect
that gentleman's opinion of him.
"I hope you are well paid."
"Yes; I receive five dollars a week and my board."
"That is better than you would do with us."
"Mr. Maxwell," said Rupert, with a sudden thought, "I wish I knew you
better."
"Why?"
"Because then I might ask you a favor."
"To enter our employment? I will take you if you wish, but I advise you
to stay where you are."
"It is not for myself that I ask, but for an experienced salesman who is
in very hard luck. He is working for Stephen Lorimer, of Third Avenue,
at five dollars a week."
"Five dollars!" exclaimed Maxwell, in surprise. "And you say he is an
experienced salesman?"
"Yes, sir."
"But why should he work for such low wages then?"
"Mr. Lorimer knew that he was poor, had a family, and was therefore in
his power. He told him to choose between five dollars a week and
dismissal."
"That is like Lorimer. He has the reputation of being the meanest man in
the business. How did you become acquainted with the man you recommend?"
Rupert told the story, and both Sylvester and Maxwell were interested.
"I suppose you don't know Mr. Lorimer?" said Maxwell.
"I know him only too well," answered Rupert. "He was my father's partner
in Buffalo, and was the cause of his ruin and death."
"Was the firm name 'Rollins & Lorimer?'" asked Maxwell.
"Yes, sir."
"Then I have met your father. I was for several years a traveling
salesman, and sold goods to the firm in Buffalo. I always preferred
dealing with your father. I didn't like Lorimer."
"I am very glad to meet any one who knew my father," said Rupert,
brightening up.
"I can hardly refuse your request now, Rupert. Tell your friend--what's
his name?"
"Henry Benton."
"Tell Mr. Benton to call at our store early next Monday morning and
inquire for me. Give him a letter, so that I may know he is the right
party. We are not taking on any salesmen, but one in the dress
department is about to leave us and enter the employment of a firm in
Chicago. I will put your friend in his place at a salary of twelve
dollars a week."
"I can't tell you how much I thank you," said Rupert, gratefully. "You
will bring happiness to a deserving family, and I don't think you will
have occasion to regret it."
The dinner was an excellent one, and was enjoyed by the small company
who partook of it.
"I must tell you, Rupert," said Sylvester, "that I have peculiar reasons
for enjoying my twenty-fifth birthday, even if I have, as Cousin John
expresses it, lived a quarter of a century. An old uncle left me fifty
thousand dollars some years ago, directing that it should pass into my
possession at the age of twenty-five."
"I congratulate you, Mr. Sylvester. I am sure you will make good use of
it."
"I am not so sure of that, but I hope so. I have begun to make use of it
already. You shake your head, Cousin John, but I don't think you will
disapprove my expenditure. I have invested seventy-five dollars in a
gold watch for Rupert, and thirty-five more in a gold chain."
He drew from his pocket a watch and chain which he handed to the
astonished bell-boy.
"I don't know what to say, Mr. Sylvester," said Rupert, gratefully.
"Your face speaks for you. I want no other thanks."
"I don't know what they will say at the hotel. They will think I am
putting on style for a bell-boy."
"I want some one to share my good fortune. I believe it is the best way
to show my gratitude to Providence. As Cousin John has done something
for your new friend, Mr. Benton, I will follow his example. Here are
twenty-five dollars, which you may give him with my best wishes."
"This gives me even more pleasure than the watch," said Rupert, with
radiant face. "I wish you could see how much happiness your gift will
carry to a worthy family."
"I will call with you and make their acquaintance some day."
The evening passed pleasantly, and it was with a happy heart that Rupert
returned to his humble home. That is, it seemed humble compared with the
fine house in which he had spent the evening.
It was not until the next night that he was able to call on his friends
in Bleecker Street.
He toiled up to the fifth floor, and knocked at the door.
There was a low "Come in," and he lifted the latch and entered.
He was startled to see that Mrs. Benton had been shedding tears, and her
husband was leaning back in his chair, with a look of sadness and
despondency.
"What is the matter?" he asked quickly.
"I thought we could not be any worse off," said Mrs. Benton, tearfully,
"but I was mistaken. To-day Mr. Lorimer discharged my husband."
"What! in the middle of the week?"
"No; he is to leave on Saturday."
"But why is this?"
"I will tell you," said Mr. Benton. "Do you know Mr. Benton's son,
Julian?"
"Yes; he is a very disagreeable boy."
"I got into trouble with him to-day. He interfered with me in my work,
and I reproved him. The consequence is that he spoke to his father
against me, and got me discharged."
"You can imagine what this means to us," said Mrs. Benton. "It was hard
enough to live on five dollars a week, even with the help of the few
pennies that Harry brings in, but now we must live on nothing. I don't
know what will become of us."
"But Mr. Benton may secure another position."
"There is very little chance of it. No one is taking on new salesmen."
"Nevertheless Mr. Benton can go to work next Monday in a store on Grand
Street at a salary more than double what he is now getting."
"Surely you are not in earnest?"
"Quite so. I will give him a letter to Gilbert & Maxwell, and he will be
set to work at once."
"But this seems incredible."
"I will explain it to you."
"You are our good angel," said Mrs. Benton, when Rupert had concluded
his account. "You come to us in our sorrow with the best news we have
had for many a day."
"Now, Mr. Benton, I have a proposal to make. I want you to hire a nice
flat in a better neighborhood and take me as a lodger. I am willing to
pay you eight dollars a month. For twenty I think you can hire a
desirable tenement, which will only leave you twelve dollars to pay."
"We shall be very much pleased to do so. If only we had a little ready
money----"
"I came near forgetting something important. I am the bearer of a gift
to you from a good friend of mine, Mr. Sylvester, of Harlem. Yesterday
was his birthday. He has given me a gold watch and chain, and to you he
sends twenty-five dollars."
Mrs. Benton's joy can be imagined.
"You have indeed proved a friend," she said.
"It is a satisfaction to me to feel that the malice of Julian Lorimer
will be disappointed. If I see him to-morrow I shall not hesitate to
give him a piece of my mind."
CHAPTER XVI.
JULIAN HAS TWO DISAPPOINTMENTS.
Had Julian Lorimer been older, and in political life, he would have
aspired to the position of a boss. He enjoyed power, and desired to have
his power acknowledged by others. When Mr. Benton reproved him for
interfering with him he felt outraged and determined to have revenge
upon the independent salesman. Therefore he complained to his father,
and a discharge was the result.
Mr. Lorimer, however, regretted afterwards giving in to the wishes of
his son. He recognized the fact that Benton was an experienced salesman
whose services were valuable, and that he was getting these at an
extraordinary low rate of wages. He could secure a man in his place,
doubtless, but it would not be so easy to get one so competent as
cheaply.
Accordingly, on the morning succeeding the dismissal he had a
conversation with Julian at the breakfast table.
"I think I shall have to take Benton back, Julian," he said.
"What, after his impudence to me?" exclaimed Julian, frowning.
"Probably you provoked him. At any rate he is a valuable man. I don't
see how I can spare him."
"There are lots of clerks out of employment."
"That may be, but he has long experience."
"If you take him back, pa, he will insult me again. I should think you
would have more consideration for me."
"I can require him to apologize to you. The man is poor as poverty, and
won't dare to refuse."
"Can't you cut down his pay?"
"Not very well. I pay him very little now. You see, Julian, this is a
matter of business. I think you are too much in the store, as you have
no employment there. If you want to go to work, that will be a different
matter."
"No, thank you. When I go into business I want to be a banker or a
wholesale merchant."
"If you will be at the store at noon I will have Benton apologize to
you."
Mr. Benton was at work in his place when Julian passed through the store
and paused in front of his counter.
"Pa wants to see you in the office," he said, abruptly.
"Very well, as soon as I fold up these goods," answered the salesman.
"You'd better hurry up if you know what's best for yourself."
"And you'd better cease talking to me in that way or I may teach you
better manners."
Julian Lorimer flushed, and his eyes blazed with anger.
"Oho!" he said, "you don't seem to know who I am."
"I know that you are an impudent boy."
Julian nodded vigorously, and went at once to his father.
"Well, I told Benton to come, and he said he'd come as soon as he got
ready."
"Are you repeating what he said exactly?"
"Yes, that is, he said he'd come when he'd folded up some goods."
"That is a different matter."
"He called me an impudent boy and threatened to lick me."
Mr. Lorimer did not reply to this. He had a suspicion that Julian had
represented matters worse than they were.
Two minutes later Henry Benton presented himself at the office. He was
quiet and calm.
"I understand you wish to see me, Mr. Lorimer," he said.
"Yes. My son has complained of you."
"You will excuse my saying that I am not in his employ, but in yours. If
he were your partner he would have a right to speak to me about my work.
As it is he is only your son, and I don't concede his right."
"As my son he is entitled to your respect."
"He would have been treated with respect had he treated me
respectfully."
"Did you ever hear the like?" Julian burst in.
"Silence, Julian!" said his father. "In your circumstances, Mr. Benton,
I think you have acted very unwisely."
"How?" asked Benton, briefly.
"You depend upon the wages I pay you for your livelihood."
"Very well, sir."
"And you make an enemy in my family and endanger your remaining in my
service."
"I understood that you discharged me yesterday."
"Ahem! yes, but I don't want to be too hard upon you. You have a family,
have you not?"
"I have a wife and young son."
"If I should discharge you they would suffer."
"What does this mean?" thought Benton.
"Therefore I have decided to recall the discharge, on condition that you
will apologize to Julian for treating him with insolence."
"If I am to retain my position on that condition, Mr. Lorimer, I prefer
to leave the store."
"I am surprised at your folly!" said the merchant, sharply. "Here, I
give you a chance to retain your place and your ill-timed pride steps in
and interferes with your interest."
"May I ask what I am to apologize to your son for, Mr. Lorimer?"
"You did not treat him with the respect due to my son," answered Mr.
Lorimer, pompously.
"Do you sustain him in interfering with my work?" asked Benton, calmly.
"I see you are incorrigible," said Lorimer, angrily. "If your family
suffers in consequence of your obstinacy, don't blame me."
"I shall not have occasion to blame you or anyone else."
"What do you mean by that? I don't understand you."
"I mean only that though I shall leave your employment I have another
place waiting for me. I shall not be idle for a day."
"Is this true?" asked Lorimer, astonished.
"Yes, sir, quite true."
"For whom are you going to work?"
"You must excuse my keeping that a secret for the present."
"When did you make application for a place?"
"I made no application at all. It was offered to me."
"I shall not give you any recommendation."
"None will be necessary, sir. I have worked elsewhere, and my former
employer will recommend me."
"I don't believe he's got a place, pa," put in Julian. "I'll bet he's
bluffing."
Benton regarded Julian with contempt, but did not say a word.
"What pay are you to get?" asked Lorimer.
"More than twice what you are paying me, sir. You took advantage of my
poverty and my necessities to reduce me to five dollars a week, a lower
price, probably, than is paid by any dry-goods merchant in the city to
an experienced salesman."
"It seems to me you are getting very independent," said Lorimer,
annoyed.
"I feel more independent than I did yesterday. I have one favor to ask."
"I have already told you that I cannot give you a recommendation."
"I don't care for one. If you can conveniently spare me I should like to
retire from your service to-day."
"Let him go, pa."
But Mr. Lorimer did not agree with Julian.
"I prefer that you should remain here till your week expires. If there
is any failure to get the situation you expect, I will continue you in
my service at six dollars a week."
"Thank you, sir, but I don't think there is any doubt about my
situation. If you have nothing further to say to me I will return to my
work."
When Benton had retired Mr. Lorimer turned to Julian angrily.
"There," he said, "I have lost one of my best salesmen, whom I was
getting dirt cheap, on account of your misconduct."
Julian was rather taken aback at this reproach.
"You can get lots of men in his place, pa," he said.
"Not at the same wages. Now go away, I am busy."
"I wish I knew where he is going to work," thought Julian. "I might
write an anonymous letter to his employer. I hate him. He puts on too
many airs for a cheap clerk."
Julian's malicious plot had certainly failed signally. The next day
about one o'clock he was passing the Somerset Hotel, on lower Broadway,
just as Rupert was coming out on an errand.
Julian at once noticed the watch chain. As he had never known of
Rupert's owning a watch, his curiosity was excited.
"What time is it?" he asked, jeeringly.
Rupert took out his watch.
"Five minutes after one," he answered.
The watch was a handsome one, as Julian noticed.
"Is that your watch?" he asked, abruptly.
"Yes."
"Is it oroide?"
"No; it is gold. Do you wish to look at it?"
Julian's curiosity was such that he took it into his hand. He could see
at once that it was a genuine and probably expensive gold watch.
"You must be making high pay to afford a watch like this," he said, in a
tone of annoyance.
"It was a present."
"From whom?"
"A friend up town."
Julian dropped the watch and went on his way in an ill humor. He had a
watch himself, but it was of less than half the value of Rupert's. He
inwardly resolved to ask his father for a new one.
CHAPTER XVII.
MR. PACKARD OF COLORADO.
In a short time the Bentons were settled in a neat flat located near
Washington Square. They purchased additional furniture on the
installment plan, and were able to offer Rupert a home more desirable
than the room he had occupied. The new prosperity was reflected in the
faces of the now happy wife and mother.
"It is you who have brought this happy change in our circumstances,
Rupert," she said. "I tremble to think what would have been our
condition but for you."
"In return you give me a pleasant home," said Rupert.
At the hotel things went on pleasantly. Rupert's services were
appreciated, and this was pleasant, though his salary had not been
increased.
Clarence Clayton never entered the hotel now. Rupert wondered what had
become of him. But one Thursday afternoon--his afternoon off--he strayed
down to the Battery.
Seated on one of the benches, looking out towards Governor's Island,
Rupert's attention was drawn after a while to two men who occupied a
neighboring bench. One of those he recognized at once as Clayton. The
other he also recognized as a guest at the Somerset Hotel, a new
arrival. He was a man of middle age who had the appearance of a
Westerner. Rupert now remembered that he had entered himself on the
hotel register as from Colorado.
"I wonder what mischief Clayton is up to now?" Rupert asked himself.
The benches were so near that he was able to hear the conversation
between the two men. Clayton had a showy gold watch in his hand which he
was endeavoring to sell to his new acquaintance.
"The fact is, my friend," Rupert heard him say, "I am awfully hard up. I
need money badly, and that is why I offer you such a bargain. This watch
is nearly new and cost me one hundred and fifty dollars in cold cash. I
offer it to you for fifty."
"How did you get so hard up?" asked the stranger.
"I took a flyer in Wall Street. I have a friend who is a broker, and he
gave me a pointer. I don't blame him, for he believed it, and invested
himself. However, things didn't turn out as we expected, and I was
cleaned out."
"How about him?"
"He lost a good deal more than I did, but he could stand it and I
couldn't."
The Western man took the watch in his hand.
"It seems a good watch," he said. "I suppose it is solid gold?"
"Undoubtedly."
"I don't know much about watches myself, though I come from a mineral
producing State. We have plenty of miners there, but I am a cattleman."
"Indeed! Is that a paying business?"
"Well, I've made a little money at it," said the other in a complacent
tone.
"I am looking for a paying business myself."
The stranger laughed.
"You are a city man," he said. "You wouldn't do for the West. You
wouldn't make much of a cowboy."
"I don't suppose I should."
"You couldn't wear patent-leather shoes in Colorado."
"Then I'll give it up if you say so. To tell the truth, I am better
fixed than you would suppose. I have an income of a thousand dollars a
year, paid me quarterly by the trustees of my late uncle's estate, but
the next payment won't come due for a month. I must tide over till then.
That is why I offer you this watch for fifty dollars."
"I shouldn't think you would like to make such a sacrifice."
"Oh, well, I need the money. Besides, what is my loss is your gain."
"You seem to take matters philosophically."
"That's my way. Seriously, though, it will be a great favor to me if you
take the watch. Fifty dollars isn't much, but with economy it will
carry me through till my next payment."
"Well, if you put it on that ground, I don't know but I will oblige
you."
The Colorado man took from his pocket a large wallet, evidently stuffed
with bills, and was about to consummate the bargain when Rupert rose
from his seat hastily. He felt that it was about time for him to take a
hand in the transaction.
"Mr. Packard," he said, "you'll excuse my interfering, but I advise you
not to buy that watch."
Clarence Clayton looked up quickly. He recognized Rupert only too well,
and would liked to have pitched him into the bay. What was to be done?
He determined to brazen it out.
"Young man," he said sharply, "you'd better mind your own business."
"How do you know my name?" asked the man from Colorado, not recognizing
Rupert.
"I am one of the bell-boys at the Somerset Hotel, where you are
boarding."
"Why do you give this warning? Can you judge of the value of the
watch?"
"No, sir; but I know this man."
"That is false," asserted Clayton; "I never saw you before to my
knowledge."
"I don't know what to think," said the cattleman, looking puzzled. "You
say you know this man?"
"Yes. He came near cheating one of our guests not long since by offering
to give his son a place in an office in Wall Street for a hundred and
fifty dollars."
"The boy lies," exclaimed Clayton. "I have a good mind to give you in
charge, you young rascal."
"You are quite welcome to do it," said Rupert, coolly.
"I hope my word is as good as this boy's," continued Clayton.
"Don't take either, Mr. Packard. I am no judge of watches. Suppose you
go to a jeweler's and ask him the value of it. If it is worth even a
hundred dollars, you can venture to give this man what he asks, that is,
supposing he has come by it honestly."
"That is a sensible proposal. I accept it."
"But I don't!" said Clayton. "I feel that I have been insulted, and I
decline to sell the watch. As for you, you young rascal, I shall
remember your interference with me in my business."
He rose and went off with his head very high in the air.
"Sit down and tell me all about this fellow," said the cattleman. "I
suspect you have saved me from being imposed upon."
Rupert told the story, and the stranger thanked him heartily.
"I have always been told that I must look out for myself in New York,
and I begin to realize it. How does it happen you are so far away from
the hotel?"
"It is my afternoon off."
They sat and chatted of Colorado, about which Rupert felt considerable
curiosity. At the end of fifteen minutes their attention was drawn to a
man of prosperous appearance who seemed in trouble. He paused as he
reached their bench, and asked anxiously, "Has either of you seen a
young man, nicely dressed and carrying a cane?" and he went on to
describe Clarence Clayton.
"Yes," answered Packard and Rupert, simultaneously, "the fellow was
sitting here less than half an hour since."
"He has stolen my gold watch," said the new acquaintance.
"He tried to sell it to me. He said it cost a hundred and fifty
dollars."
"So it did, and more, too."
"He offered it for fifty dollars."
"How did it happen that you did not buy it?"
"I was about to do so, but this boy told me he was a confidence man."
"Then you knew him?" asked the stranger.
"Yes," answered Rupert.
"Can you suggest any way in which I can recover my property?"
"Yes, sir. Report the matter to the police, and ask to have Richard
Darke, a well-known detective, put on the case. I will give you a line
to him. He will know at once who it is."
"I will do so. Where can I find you again?"
"At the Somerset Hotel, on Broadway."
"Thank you. If I receive it I will gladly compensate you for your
suggestion."
"I thank you, but do not wish any compensation. If I can defeat this
man's dishonest scheme I shall feel well repaid."
"Our cunning friend will soon be overhauled, I suspect," said the
cattleman. "Did you say you were off this afternoon?"
"Yes, sir."
"I am new to the city and want a guide. Are you open to an engagement?"
"Yes, sir," answered Rupert, with a smile. "But I don't care for pay."
"Then we don't go. Business is business, and there is no reason why I
should take up your time without paying you a fair sum."
"Just as you like, sir."
The two spent the next three or four hours in visiting different objects
of interest in New York. The Colorado man seemed much pleased with his
young companion.
"You must come out to Colorado some time, Rupert," he said. "You are a
boy who would succeed there, or indeed anywhere. We have some men come
out there who are failures at the East, and they are surprised that they
don't succeed in the West. But I tell you that it takes as much brains
to win success in Colorado as in New York."
"Is that always the case? I have heard of men getting rich in the West
who were poor at home."
"That is true. Perhaps they were in the wrong business. I don't mind
saying that was the case with me. I was in the insurance business in
Hartford, but I wasn't particularly well adapted for it. I couldn't
talk. Out in Colorado I have learned to understand cattle, and they have
made me rich."
"Mr. Clayton can talk."
"Yes, a little too well. Unfortunately he is not honest, and a dishonest
man ought not to thrive anywhere. In Colorado he wouldn't live wrong.
Thieves are summarily dealt with."
About seven o'clock Mr. Packard invited Rupert to dine with him at
Delmonico's.
Rupert had heard a great deal about this celebrated restaurant, and was
glad to accept the invitation.
CHAPTER XVIII.
A SCENE AT DELMONICO'S.
The two friends entered Delmonico's on the Broadway side, and took seats
at one of the windows. Rupert, after giving the order, looked about him.
He was curious to see that famous restaurant. He was destined to a
surprise. At the second table, sitting with his back to Mr. Packard and
himself, was a person whom he had the best reason to remember.
It was Clarence Clayton.
He touched Mr. Packard's arm, and silently pointed to Clayton.
"Well, I'll be jiggered!" exclaimed the cattleman, in surprise. "That
fellow has got nerve."
Mr. Clayton was evidently enjoying himself. Beside his plate stood a
pint bottle of champagne of Delmonico's special brand. His dinner would
probably involve an expense of five dollars.
"He must have sold or pawned the watch," suggested Rupert in a low
voice.
At this moment Clayton looked around. He at once recognized the two whom
he had last seen at the Battery.
"So we meet again?" he said, coolly.
"Yes," answered the cattleman. "You appear to be having a pleasant
time."
"I generally do," returned Clayton.
"You seem to have negotiated a loan."
"I met a party who seemed to know more about gold watches than you do."
"I congratulate you," said Packard, dryly.
Clayton returned to the discussion of his dinner, and soon the two
friends were served.
"Shall I order some champagne, Rupert?" asked the man from Colorado.
"Not for me. I have promised my mother to avoid drink."
"You are wise. Far be it from me to tempt you. I have seen too much of
the evil done by intemperance."
Clarence Clayton evidently had no such objection to drink. He drained
the bottle, and calling for a cigar, leaned back in his chair, with a
self-satisfied smile.
"That fellow is a curiosity," Packard said. "He probably has good
abilities, and would meet with success in an honest career. He has made
poor use of his talents. I wonder if he ever reflects upon the
inevitable end of his dishonesty?"
"It doesn't seem to trouble him much," returned Rupert.
Neither he nor Clayton observed the quiet entrance of a small,
unobtrusive man, with sharp eyes, who, taking rapid glances at the
guests, moved towards the table occupied by the adventurer.
Sitting in pleasant enjoyment of his cigar, Clayton's attention was
drawn by a slight tap on his shoulder. Looking up in momentary
impatience he saw the newcomer at his side.
Stifling an ejaculation he stared at him in dismay.
"Mr. Clayton," said Detective Darke, in a low voice, "I see you know
me."
"No, I can't say I have the pleasure," stammered Clayton.
"You are polite to call it a pleasure. I am Richard Darke."
"Can I offer you a glass of champagne, Mr. Darke?"
"There doesn't seem to be any left in the bottle."
"I will order another."
"I won't put you to that trouble. I have business with you, and must
request you to go with me."
"But----"
"I can take no denial," said the detective, sharply. "Go up to the desk,
settle your bill, and then we will go out together. There will be no
scene, and no one will know my errand, if you obey my directions."
Clayton went up to the desk, paid his check, and then, turning to the
detective, said,
"I am at your service."
By this time Rupert noticed what was going on, and silently called the
attention of Mr. Packard to it.
"Poor chap!" said the cattleman, as Clayton and his unwelcome companion
left the restaurant, "his punishment has come sooner than I anticipated.
He will be punished, but I am afraid the owner of the watch stands a
poor chance of recovering his property."
"Probably he will get possession of the pawn ticket and so secure the
watch, though it may cost him twenty-five dollars."
"It will be some time before the thief gets another such dinner as he
has eaten to-night."
After supper Packard said,
"Are you feeling tired, Rupert?"
"Oh, no, sir."
"Then suppose we go to some theatre."
"All right, sir. What theatre do you prefer?"
"I leave the choice to you."
"Palmer's Theatre is very near."
"Then let us go there."
They reached the theatre just as the curtain was rising. Mr. Packard
bought two choice seats, and they were soon seated in the orchestra. As
soon as he had a chance to look about him, Rupert discovered to his
surprise that Mr. Lorimer and Julian were sitting directly in front of
him. At the sound of his voice Julian turned, and was greatly surprised
to see the bell-boy occupying as high-priced a seat as himself. When the
first act was ended, he took measures to gratify his curiosity.
"I am surprised to see you here," he said.
"It is a mutual surprise," responded Rupert.
"You know what I mean. It is not usual to meet bell-boys in orchestra
seats."
"I was not asked at the ticket office what was my employment."
"Are you here alone?"
"No; let me introduce my friend, Mr. Packard, of Colorado."
Julian glanced at the cattleman, and was not impressed. Mr. Packard's
clothing was by no means stylish. Julian naturally supposed him to be a
person of small means and no particular consequence. He gave him a
slight nod, and turned his face towards the stage.
"What is the name of that boy?" asked the cattleman.
"Julian Lorimer."
"Is he related to Stephen Lorimer?"
"Stephen Lorimer is his father. Do you know him?" asked Rupert, in
surprise.
"Stephen Lorimer is a cousin of mine."
"There he is, next to Julian."
Mr. Lorimer's ears caught the sound of his own name, and, turning, he
recognized Rupert, but not his cousin.
"You here, Rupert Rollins?" he said, in surprise.
"Yes, sir. Do you know this gentleman with me?"
Stephen Lorimer regarded the cattleman blankly.
"No," he answered slowly. "I don't know him."
"Perhaps you will remember the name of Giles Packard," said the
cattleman, but his tone was cold and not cordial.
"Are you Giles Packard?"
"Yes."
Stephen Lorimer looked embarrassed.
"I hope you are prosperous," he said.
"Thank you--I am doing well now."
"Where do you live?"
"In Colorado."
"Ah! Mines?"
"No, cattle."
"Call and see me. Rupert will tell you where I may be found."
"I may do so."
"Is he a cowboy?" asked Julian, in an audible whisper.
Giles Packard heard the words and he looked at Rupert with a smile.
"He is like his father," he said.
They did not again speak. After the play Stephen Lorimer went out of the
theatre without even a look at his new-found relative. Rupert and the
man from Colorado, following slowly, made the best of their way down
Broadway to the Somerset House.
"How came you to know Stephen Lorimer?" asked Packard.
"He and my father were in business together in Buffalo some years since.
They failed, and I have always believed that my father was defrauded.
At any rate he lost everything, while his old partner had money enough
to start in the dry-goods business in New York."
"History repeats itself," said Packard. "Many years ago, when I was
twenty-two, I was the partner of Stephen Lorimer."
"You!"
"Yes. In fact I furnished three-fourths of the capital. At the end of
eighteen months we failed. I never could understand why, for our
business had been good. Stephen kept the books, and I examined without
being able to understand them. The upshot of it was that I was thrown
upon the world penniless, while he soon went into business for himself
in another place. I have not seen Lorimer for twenty years, till
accident brought us together to-night."
"I am glad you are prosperous again."
"Yes. I have far more money than when I belonged to the firm of Lorimer
& Packard."
"Perhaps Mr. Lorimer would take you in as partner again."
"I have no desire to be associated with him in any way. I believe him
to be a thoroughly dishonest man. I am sorry that your father has
suffered also at his hands."
Rupert accompanied Mr. Packard to the hotel, having agreed to relieve
another bell-boy from midnight till six o'clock the next morning.
When he reached the hotel he found it a scene of excitement. The bell of
No. 61 had been ringing violently for some time.
The other bell-boy had come downstairs in a panic.
"I can't get into No. 61," he reported. "There is somebody dead or
murdered there."
CHAPTER XIX.
WHAT HAPPENED IN NO. 61.
"Come upstairs with me, Rupert," said Mr. Malcolm, the clerk. "You've
got a head on your shoulders. We'll soon find out what's the matter."
They ascended in the elevator to the third floor, and made their way
hurriedly to No. 61.
There was a sound of a child crying inside. Mr. Malcolm tried the door
but it was locked.
"Open the door!" he called out.
"I can't," was the answer, in a young child's voice. "It's locked."
"Can't you turn the key?"
"No; I don't know how."
"You will have to get through the transom," said the clerk. "If we only
had a step-ladder."
"Lift me up and I'll get through," said Rupert. "I have practiced in a
gymnasium."
"Very well, if you think you can."
The clerk bent over, and Rupert, standing on his shoulders, was lifted
so that he could reach the transom.
Then, by a skillful movement, he raised himself still farther till he
could look inside.
"What do you see?" asked Malcolm.
"There is a man lying on his face on the floor. He must have had a fit
or something."
"Can you get through and lower yourself to the floor?"
"I think so. I will try."
"It is the only way to get into the room."
In very quick time Rupert accomplished his object. He turned the key and
opened the door.
It was as he had said. A man lay prone upon the floor, and beside him,
crying bitterly, was a pretty little boy of five, who was evidently very
much frightened.
"Papa sick," he said.
Malcolm bent over the prostrate man, and tearing open his vest placed
his hand on his heart.
"The man is dead!" he said, gravely, turning to Rupert.
The child was undressed, and the appearance of the bed showed that he at
least had occupied it.
"How long has your papa been lying here?" asked Malcolm.
"I don't know. I woke up a little while ago, and I saw him on the
floor."
"Is he cold?" asked Rupert.
"Yes; he must have been lying here for some time. Probably he was about
to undress, when he had an attack of some kind, and fell as we see him.
Call Dr. Bancroft."
A physician from Massachusetts was one of the guests of the hotel, and
occupied Room 57.
Summoned by Rupert, he entered the room, and immediately made an
examination of the body.
"Died of heart disease!" he said, briefly.
"Will papa soon be well?" asked the little boy, anxiously.
"We can tell better to-morrow," said the physician, pityingly. "You had
better go with this gentleman, so as not to disturb your father, and we
will do what we can for him."
Soothed by this assurance, for the little fellow did not understand that
his father was beyond earthly help, the boy was led away and put in
charge of a sympathetic lady guest for the night.
"Has he been dead long, doctor?" asked Malcolm.
"Probably for over an hour. What is his name?"
"I have forgotten. It is on the register."
"Perhaps we may find a letter in his pocket that will throw light on the
matter."
Malcolm put his hand in the inside coat pocket and drew out, first, a
letter addressed to
     PAUL HARVEY,
     Albany,
     New York.
The other had no envelope and seemed to be an open letter. It ran thus:
     To whom it may concern--
     "My doctor tells me that I am liable at any moment to drop dead
     from heart disease. I do not dread death for myself, but when I
     think of my little Fred, soon to be left fatherless, as he is
     already motherless, I am filled with anxiety. I am practically
     alone in the world, and there is no one to whom I can confide.
     Should death come to me suddenly, I trust some kind-hearted person
     will adopt Freddie, and supply a father's place to him. In my
     inside vest pocket will be found securities amounting to eleven
     hundred dollars. After defraying my funeral expenses there will
     probably be a thousand dollars left. I leave it to any one who will
     undertake the care and maintenance of my dear little boy.
     PAUL HARVEY."
The three looked at one another after the clerk had read the letter.
"Here is a responsibility for some one," said Dr. Bancroft. "I wish it
were in my power to take the little boy, but I am only here as a guest,
and circumstances will not permit."
"I am a bachelor, and should find it impossible to assume such a
charge," said the clerk, "though I feel for the little fellow."
An inspiration had come to Rupert. His heart had gone out to the little
boy so tragically deprived of his natural protector.
"I will take the little boy if you are willing," he said.
"You! A boy! What can you do with him?" asked Malcolm.
"I am boarding in a nice family," he said. "I will put him under the
care of Mrs. Benton, who has a young son of her own."
"But do you realize what a responsibility you are assuming?"
"I do, and I am not afraid. I never had a little fellow, and I shall be
very fond of Fred."
"What do you think, doctor?" asked the clerk.
"I think from the little I know of this boy, that, though a young
guardian, he will be a reliable one. I recommend that Fred, if that's
his name, be put under his charge."
"In that case, according to the father's direction, the money will go to
Rupert."
"Please take charge of it, Mr. Malcolm, till the funeral is over. Then
we will place it in some bank."
"It will not go very far towards paying for the boy's board and
education. He can't be more than five or six."
"When it is gone I will support him."
No objection was made, and it was agreed that Rupert should have the
custody of the little orphan, not yet conscious of his loss.
CHAPTER XX.
MR. PACKARD'S GIFT.
It was not until the next day that Giles Packard knew of the tragedy in
No. 61. He had gone to bed at once on reaching the hotel, and had not
heard of Rupert's adopting a child.
"What is this I hear, Rupert?" he asked, on meeting the bell-boy. "I
hear you have an adopted son."
"Yes," answered Rupert, with a smile.
"Won't you get tired of the care and responsibility?"
"I think not."
"Besides, there will be considerable expense."
"The money left by his father will pay that till I am older and am
earning more."
"Not many boys of your age would dare to assume such a charge."
"Perhaps not, but Fred is such a sweet boy I cannot help loving him."
"Look here, Rupert, won't you let me share the expense? I am rich and
have no family ties?"
"Thank you, Mr. Packard. I am very much obliged to you, but I should
like to feel that I am Fred's sole guardian. I want him to learn to love
me."
"I don't know but you are right. I won't interfere if you don't wish me
to."
That evening Rupert took Fred to Mr. Benton's.
"I have brought you another boarder," he said.
Mrs. Benton looked surprised.
"Is it a relation of yours?" she asked.
"He is my son."
The good lady looked amazed.
"My adopted son," amended Rupert, with a smile; and then he told her of
the sudden death at the hotel, and little Fred's bereavement. Mrs.
Benton's heart went out to the little orphan, and she stooped and kissed
him.
"Will you live with me?" she asked.
"I am going to live with him," said little Fred, taking Rupert's hand.
"He will live here, too."
"Then I will stay," answered the child, gravely. "I am to stay with him
till papa comes back."
They had told the little boy that his father had gone on a long journey,
and wished him to stay with Rupert during his absence. He had acquiesced
quietly, for he was a docile child, and transferred his affection to
Rupert, of whose love he felt assured.
"Now, Mrs. Benton, I must make a bargain with you for Fred's board."
Mrs. Benton at first refused to accept anything, protesting that a child
would be little expense, but Rupert told her that the father had left
money, and finally induced her to accept three dollars a week.
"I am afraid that is too little," said the bell-boy.
"No; it will help pay the rent, and I shall like to have Freddie here as
a companion for Harry."
So it was arranged, and the little boy was provided with a happy and
comfortable home at small expense.
Two days later Giles Packard sought out Rupert during an interval of the
bell-boy's labors.
"How is the little boy?" asked the cattleman.
"He is well, and he seems to be happy. He thinks his father is away on a
journey."
"The journey we must all take some time," said Packard, gravely. "Then
you won't accept my help towards paying for the child's maintenance?"
"It won't be necessary, Mr. Packard. I am to pay only three dollars a
week for his board."
"His clothing will cost something."
"Mrs. Benton will manage that. She says it won't cost over fifty dollars
a year."
"I foresaw that you wouldn't let me help support the boy, so I have got
even with you in another way."
"How is that?" asked Rupert, puzzled.
Mr. Packard, smiled.
"I decided to make you a present," he said. "You won't refuse that?"
"No; I am sure you are a good friend, and I won't reject your kindness."
Rupert fancied Mr. Packard might be intending to give him fifty dollars,
or something like that, and he felt that it would be ungracious to
refuse.
The man from Colorado drew from his pocket a large-sized envelope, and
from it took a legal document.
"This," he said, "is a deed of two lots in Harlem, not far from
One-hundred-and-twenty-fifth Street. The deed is made out to you, and
establishes your ownership."
"I didn't know you had any lots in Harlem," said Rupert, in surprise.
"Neither had I till yesterday. I bought them through a real estate agent
on Third Avenue, after carefully considering several others."
"But, Mr. Packard, they must have cost you a good deal of money."
"Two thousand dollars."
"And you give me such a valuable present?"
"Yes, Rupert, and I am glad to do so. Don't think I have pinched myself
to do it. I am a rich man, and I haven't a chick or child, except--well,
except you," he continued, with a smile.
"I don't know that I ought to accept such a handsome present, though I
fully appreciate your great kindness."
"I don't quite see that you have any choice. The deed is made out in
your name, and in due time you will find that you will have to pay taxes
on them."
"Then I suppose I must submit. I don't know how to thank you."
"Then don't do it. It would make me feel awkward. I will give you some
good advice before I leave you. Those lots I believe will advance in
price very rapidly. Building is going on very near them, and they are in
the path of improvement. My advice is that you hold on to them at least
five years. They may realize you a small fortune."
"I will certainly be guided by your advice. Do you know, Mr. Packard, I
imagine there are very few bell-boys in New York who are as rich as I
am?"
"I don't think I have ever heard of a bell-boy millionaire," said the
cattleman, smiling, "though I hope the one before me may make the first
exception to a general rule. Did I tell you that I expect to start on my
return to Colorado to-morrow?"
"So soon as that?"
"Yes; I have received news from my agent there--good news, mind--that
makes it advisable for me to abridge my visit. May I hope that you will
write me sometimes?"
"I shall be glad to do so, Mr. Packard."
"Mind, it is a compact. Some time I expect you to visit me out there."
"When my child gets a little older," said Rupert, with a smile.
"And if at any time you find the expense too great for your means, let
me help you."
"I will."
So the two friends parted, and Rupert resumed his regular routine as a
bell-boy.
CHAPTER XXI.
RUPERT BECOMES A CONFIDANT.
Some three months later Rupert's attention was called to a boy of
seventeen or thereabouts, with long black hair and a high forehead, who
registered as a guest, and took one of the cheapest rooms in the hotel.
The boy seemed to have no companion, and to know very little about the
city.
"Can you direct me to Palmer's Theatre?" he asked, rather diffidently.
"It is on Broadway, corner of Thirtieth Street," answered Rupert.
"And Daly's?"
"That is nearly opposite, on the other side of Broadway."
