made of, even to guess I could? You don't know what women are like,
Laurie Morse,--you don't know!"
She broke down in piteous weeping. Even then it seemed to her that it
would be good to find herself comforted with warm human sympathy; but
not a thought of its possibility remained in her mind. She saw the
boundaries beyond which she must not pass. Though the desert were arid
on this side, it was her desert, and there in her tent must she abide.
She began speaking again between sobbing breaths:--
"I did have a dull life. I used up all my young days doin' the same
things over and over, when I wanted somethin' different. It was dull;
but if I could have it all over again, I'd work my fingers to the bone.
I don't know how it would have been if you and I'd come together then,
and had it all as we planned; but now I'm a different woman. I can't any
more go back than you could turn Sudleigh River, and coax it to run
up-hill. I don't know whether 't was meant my life should make me a
different woman; but I am different, and such as I am, I'm his woman.
Yes, till I die, till I'm laid in the ground 'longside of him!" Her
voice had an assured ring of triumph, as if she were taking again an
indissoluble marriage oath.
Laurie had grown very pale. There were forlorn hollows under his eyes;
now he looked twice his age.
"I didn't suppose you kept a place for me," he said, with an unconscious
dignity. "That wouldn't have been right, and him alive. And I didn't
wait for dead men's shoes. But somehow I thought there was something
between you and me that couldn't be outlived."
Amelia looked at him with a frank sweetness which transfigured her face
into spiritual beauty.
"I thought so, too," she answered, with that simplicity ever attending
our approximation to the truth. "I never once said it to myself; but all
this year, 'way down in my heart, I knew you'd come back. And I wanted
you to come. I guess I'd got it all planned out how we'd make up for
what we'd lost, and build up a new life. But so far as I go, I guess I
didn't lose by what I've lived through. I guess I gained somethin' I'd
sooner give up my life than even lose the memory of."
So absorbed was she in her own spiritual inheritance that she quite
forgot his pain. She gazed past him with an unseeing look; and striving
to meet and recall it, he faced the vision of their divided lives.
To-morrow Amelia would remember his loss and mourn over it with maternal
pangs; to-night she was oblivious of all but her own. Great human
experiences are costly things; they demand sacrifice, not only of
ourselves, but of those who are near us. The room was intolerable to
Laurie. He took his hat and coat, and hurried out. Amelia heard the
dragging door closed behind him. She realized, with the numbness born of
supreme emotion, that he was putting on his coat outside in the cold;
and she did not mind. The bells stirred, and went clanging away. Then
she drew a long breath, and bowed her head on her hands in an
acquiescence that was like prayer.
It seemed a long time to Amelia before she awoke again to temporal
things. She rose, smiling, to her feet, and looked about her as if her
eyes caressed every corner of the homely room. She picked up puss in a
round, comfortable ball, and carried her back to the hearthside chair;
there she stroked her until her touchy ladyship had settled down again
to purring content. Then Amelia, still smiling, and with an absent look,
as if her mind wandered through lovely possibilities of a sort which
can never be undone, drew forth the spinning-wheel, and fitted a roll to
the spindle. She began stepping back and forth as if she moved to the
measure of an unheard song, and the pleasant hum of her spinning broke
delicately upon the ear. It seemed to waken all the room into new
vibrations of life. The clock ticked with an assured peace, as if
knowing it marked eternal hours. The flames waved softly upward without
their former crackle and sheen; and the moving shadows were gentle and
rhythmic ones come to keep the soul company. Amelia felt her thread
lovingly.
"I guess I'll dye it blue," she said, with a tenderness great enough to
compass inanimate things. "He always set by blue, didn't he, puss?"
THE FLAT-IRON LOT
The fields were turning brown, and in the dusty gray of the roadside,
closed gentians gloomed, and the aster burned like a purple star. It was
the finest autumn for many years. People said, with every clear day,
"Now this must be a weather-breeder;" but still the storm delayed. Then
they anxiously scanned the heavens, as if, weeks beforehand, the signs
of the time might be written there; for this was the fall of all others
when wind and sky should be kind to Tiverton. She was going to celebrate
her two hundred and fiftieth anniversary, and she was big with the
importance of it.
On a still afternoon, over three weeks before that happy day, a slender
old man walked erectly along the country road. He carried a cane over
his shoulder, and, slung upon it, a small black leather bag, bearing the
words, painted in careful letters, "Clocks repaired by N. Oldfield." As
he went on, he cast a glance, now and then, to either side, from
challenging blue eyes, strong yet in the indomitable quality of youth.
He knew every varying step of the road, and could have numbered, from
memory, the trees and bushes that fringed its length; and now, after a
week's absence, he swept the landscape with the air of a manorial lord,
to see what changes might have slipped in unawares. At one point, a flat
triangular stone had been tilted up on edge, and an unpracticed hand had
scrawled on it, in chalk, "4 M to Sudleigh." The old man stopped, took
the bag from his shoulder, and laid it tenderly on a stone of the wall.
Then, with straining hands, he pulled the rock down into the worn spot
where it had lain, and gave a sigh of relief when it settled into its
accustomed place, and the tall grass received it tremulously. Now he
opened his bag, took from it a cloth, carefully folded, and rubbed the
rock until those defiling chalk marks were partially effaced.
"Little varmints!" he said, apostrophizing the absent school children
who had wrought the deed. "Can't they let nothin' alone?" He took up his
bag, and went on.
Nicholas Oldfield, as he walked the road that day, was a familiar figure
to all the county round. He had a smooth, carefully shaven face, with a
fine outline of nose and chin, and his straight gray hair shone from
faithful brushing. He was almost aggressively clean. Even his blue eyes
had the appearance of having just been washed, like a spring day after a
shower. It was a frequent remark that he looked as if he had come out
of a bandbox; and one critic even went so far as to assert that on
Sundays he sandpapered his eyes and gave a little extra polish to his
bones. But these were calumnies; though to-day his suit of home-made
blue was quite speckless, and the checked gingham neckerchief, which
made his ordinary wear, still kept its stiff, starched creases.
"Dirt don't stick to you, Mr. Oldfield," once said a seeking widow.
"Your washing can't be much. I guess anybody 'd be glad to undertake it
for you." Mr. Oldfield nodded gravely, as one receiving the tribute
which was justly his, and continued to do his washing himself.
As he walked the dusty road, bearing his little bag, so he had walked it
for years, sometimes within a few miles of home, and again at the
extreme limit of the county edge. The clocks of the region were all his
clients, some regarded with compassion ("ramshackle things" that needed
perpetual tinkering) and others with a holy awe. "The only thing
Nicholas Oldfield bows the knee before is a double-back-action clock a
thousand years old," said Brad Freeman, the regardless. "That's how he
reads Ancient of Days." The justice of the remark was acknowledged,
though, as touching Mr. Oldfield, it was felt to be striking rather too
keenly at the root of things. For Nicholas Oldfield was looked upon
with a respect not so much inspired by his outward circumstances as by
his method of taking them. There are, indeed, ways and ways among us who
serve the public. When Tom O'Neil went round peddling essences, children
saw him from afar, ran to meet him, and, falling on his pack, besought
him for "two-three-drops-o'-c'logne" with such fervor that the mothers
had to haul them off by main force, in order themselves to approach his
redolence; but when the clock-mender appeared, with his little bag,
propriety walked before him, and the naughtiest scion of the flock would
come soberly in, to announce:--
"Mother, here's Mr. Oldfield."
It is true that this little old man did exemplify the dignity and
restraint of life to such a degree that, had it not been for his one
colossal weakness, the town might have condemned him, in good old
Athenian fashion. Clock-mending was a legitimate industry; but there
were those who felt it to be, in his case, a mere pretext for nosing
round and identifying ridiculous old things which nobody prized until
Nicholas Oldfield told them it was conformable so to do. Some believed
him and some did not; but it was known that a MacDonough's Victory
tea-set drove him to an almost outspoken rapture, and that the mere
mention of the Bay Psalm Book (a copy of which he sought with the
haggard fervor of one who worships but has ceased to hope) was enough
to make him "wild as a hawk." Old papers, too, drew him by their very
mildew; and when his townsfolk were in danger of respecting him too
tediously, they recalled these amiable puerilities, drew a breath of
relief, and marked his value down.
Many facts in his life were not in the least understood, because he
never saw the possibility of talking about them. For example, when at
the marriage of his son, Young Nick, he made over the farm, and kept his
own residence in the little gambrel-roofed house where he had been born,
and his father and grandfather before him, the act was, for a time,
regarded somewhat gloomily by the public at large. There were Young Nick
and his Hattie, living in the big new house, with its spacious piazza
and cool green blinds; there the two daughters were born and bred, and
the elder of them was married. The new house had its hired girl and man;
and meantime the other Nicholas (nobody ever dreamed of calling him Old
Nick) was cooking his own meals, and even, of a Saturday, scouring his
kitchen floor. It was easy to see in him the pathetic symbol of a bygone
generation relegated to the past. A little wave of sympathy crept to his
very feet, and then, finding itself unnoted, ebbed away again. Only one
village censor dared speak, saying slyly to Young Nick's Hattie:--
"Ain't no room for grandpa in the new house, is there?"
Hattie opened her eyes wide at this discovery, though now she realized
that echoes of a like benevolence had reached her ears before. She went
home very early from the quilting, and that night she said to her
husband, as they sat on the doorstone, waiting for the milk to cool:--
"Nicholas, little things I've got hold of, first an' last, make me
conclude folks pity father. Do you s'pose they do?"
Young Nick selected a fat plantain spike, and began stripping the seeds.
"Well, I dunno what for," said he, after consideration. "Father seems to
be pretty rugged."
Hattie was one of those who find no quicker remedy than that of
plentiful speech; and later in the evening, she sped over to the little
house, across the dewy orchard. Mr. Oldfield had come home only that
afternoon, and now he had drawn up at his kitchen table, which was
covered by a hand-woven cloth, beautifully ironed, and set with
old-fashioned dishes. He had hot biscuits and apple-pie, and the odor of
them rose soothingly to Hattie's nostrils, dissipating, for a moment,
her consciousness of tragedy and wrong. A man could not be quite forlorn
who cooked such "victuals," and sat before them so serenely.
"See here, father," said she, with the desperation of speaking her mind
for the first time to one from whom she had hitherto kept awesomely
remote; "when we moved into the new house, I dunno's there was any talk
about your comin', too. I guess it never entered into our heads you'd do
anything but to stick to the old place. An' now, after it's all past an'
gone, the neighbors say"--
Nicholas Oldfield had been smiling his slight, dry smile. At this point,
he took up a knife, and cut a careful triangle of pie. He did all these
things as if each one were very important.
"Here, Hattie," said he, "you taste o' this dried apple. I put a mite o'
lemon in."
Hattie, somehow abashed by the mental impact of the little man, ate her
pie meekly, and thenceforth waived the larger issue. All the same, she
knew the neighbors "pitied father," and that they would continue to pity
him so long as he lived alone in the little peaceful house, doing his
own washing and making his own pie.
To-night was a duplication of many another when Nicholas Oldfield had
turned the corner and come in sight of his own home; but often as it had
been repeated, the experience was never the same. Some would have named
his springing emotion delight; but it neither quickened his pace nor
made him draw his breath the faster. Perhaps he even walked a little
more slowly, to enjoy the taste, for he was a saving man. There was the
little house, white as paint could make it, and snug in bowering
foliage. He noted, with an approving eye, that the dahlias in the front
yard, set in stiff nodding rows, were holding their own bravely against
the dry fall weather, and that the asters were blooming profusely,
purple and pink. A rare softness came over his features when he stepped
into the yard; and though he examined the roof critically in passing, it
was with the eye of love. He fitted the key in the lock; the sound of
its turning made music in his ears, and, setting his foot upon the sill,
he was a man for whom that little was enough. Nicholas Oldfield was at
home.
He laid down his bag, and went, without an instant's pause, straight
through to the sitting-room, and stood before the tall eight-day clock.
He put his hand on the woodwork, as if it might have been the shoulder
of a friend, and looked up understandingly in its face.
"Well, here we be," said he. "You'd ha' hil' out till mornin', though."
For wherever he might travel, he always made it a point to be home in
time to wind the clocks; and however early he might hurry away again,
under stress of some antiquarian impulse, they were left alive and
pulsing behind him. There was one in each room, besides the tall
eight-day in the parlor, and they were all soft-voiced and leisurely,
reminiscent of another age than ours. Though three of them had been
inherited, it almost seemed as if Nicholas must have selected the entire
company, so harmonious were they, so serenely fitted to the calm decorum
of his own desires.
In half an hour he had accomplished many things, and his fire sent a
spiral breath toward heaven. The dark old kitchen lay open, door and
window, to the still opulent sun, and from the pantry and a corner
cupboard came gleams of color, to delight the eye. Here were riches,
indeed: old India china, an unbroken set of Sheltered Peasant, and, on
the top shelf, little mugs and cups of a pink lustre, soft and sweet as
flowers. Many a collector had wooed Nicholas Oldfield to part with his
china (for the fame of it had spread afar,) but his only response to
solicitation was to open the doors more widely on his treasures,
remarking, without emphasis:--
"I guess they might as well stay where they be."
So passive was he, that many among merchants judged they had impressed
him, and returned again and again to the charge; but when they found
always the same imperturbable front, the same mild neutrality of
demeanor, they melted sadly away, and were seen no more, leaving their
places to be taken by others equally hopeful and as sure to be betrayed.
One creature only was capable of rousing Nicholas Oldfield from that
calm wherein he went ticking on through life. She it was who, by some
natal likeness, understood him wholly; and to-night, just as he was
sitting down to his supper of "cream o' tartar" biscuits and smoking
tea, her clear voice broke upon his solitude.
"Gran'ther," called Mary Oldfield from the door, "mother says, 'Won't
you come over to supper?' She saw your smoke."
Nicholas pushed back his chair a little; he felt himself completed.
"You had yours?" he asked, in his usual even tones.
"No. I waited for you."
"Then you come right in an' git it. Take your mug--here, I'll reach it
down for ye--an' there's the Good-Girl plate."
Mary Oldfield was a tall, pleasant looking maid of sixteen, and standing
quietly by, while her grandfather got out her own plate and mug, she was
an amazingly faithful copy of him. They smiled a little at each other,
in sitting down, but there was no closer greeting between them. They
were exceedingly well content to be together again, and this was so
simple and natural a state that there was nothing to say about it. Only
Nicholas looked at her from time to time--her capable brown hands and
careful braids of hair,--and nodded briefly, as he had a way of nodding
at his clocks.
"You know what I told you, Mary, about the Flat-Iron Lot?" he asked,
while Mary buttered her biscuit.
She looked at him in assent.
"Well, I've proved it."
"You don't say!"
Mary had certain antique methods of speech, which the new-fangled school
teacher, not liking to pronounce them vulgar, had tactfully dubbed
"obsolete." "If we used 'em all the time they wouldn't get obsolete,
would they?" asked Mary; and the school teacher, being a logical person,
made no answer. So Mary went on plying them with a conscientious
calmness like one determined to keep a precious and misprized metal in
circulation. She even called Nicholas gran'ther, because he liked it,
and because he had called his own grandfather so.
"Ye see," said Nicholas, "the fust rec'ids were missin'. 'Burnt up!'
says that town clerk over to Sudleigh. 'Burnt when the old meetin'-house
ketched fire, arter the Injun raid.' 'Burnt up!' thinks I. 'The cat's
foot! I guess so, when the communion service was carried over fifteen
mile an' left in a potato sullar.' So I says to myself, 'What become o'
that fust communion set?' Why, before the meetin'-house was repaired,
they all rode over to what's now Saltash, to worship in Square
Billin's's kitchen. Now, when Square Billin's died of a fever, that same
winter, they hove all his books into that old lumber-room over Sudleigh
court-house. So, when I was fixin' up the court-house clock, t' other
day, I clim' up to that room, an' shet myself in there. An', Mary, I
found them rec'ids!" He looked at her with that complete and
awe-stricken triumph which nobody else had ever seen upon his face. Her
own reflected it.
"Where are they, gran'ther?" asked Mary. But she was the more excited;
she could only whisper.
"They're loose sheets o' paper," returned Nicholas, "an' they're in my
bag!"
Mary made an involuntary movement toward the bag, which lay, innocently
secretive, on a neighboring chair. Even its advertising legend had a
knowing look. Nicholas followed her glance.
"No," said he firmly, "not now. We'll read 'em all over this evenin',
when I've done the dishes. But, Mary, I'll tell ye this much: it's got
the whole story of the settlers comin' into town, an' which way they
come, an' all about it, writ down by Simeon Gerry, the fust minister,
the one that killed five Injuns, stoppin' to load an' fire, an' then
opened on the rest with bilin' fat. An', Mary, the fust settler of all
was Nicholas Oldfield, haulin' his wife on a kind of a drag made o'
withes; an' the path they took led straight over our Flat-Iron Lot. An',
Mary, 't was there they rested, an' offered up prayer to God."
"O my soul, gran'ther!" breathed Mary, clasping her little brown hands.
"O my soul!" Her face grew curiously mature. It seemed to mirror his.
She leaned forward, in a deadly earnestness. "Gran'ther," said she, "did
they settle here first? Or--or was it Sudleigh?"
Now, indeed, was Nicholas Oldfield the herald of news good both to tell
and hear.
"The fust settlement," said he, as if he read it from the book of fate,
"was made in Tiverton, on the sixteenth day of the month; the second in
Sudleigh, on the twenty-fifth."
"So, when you guessed at the date, and told parson to have the
celebration then, you got it right?"
"I got it right," replied Nicholas quietly. "But pa'son shall see the
rec'ids, an' I'll recommend him to put 'em under lock an' key."
The two sat there and looked at each other, with an outwelling of great
content. Then Mary passed her mug, and while Nicholas filled it, he gave
her an oft-repeated charge:--
"Don't you open your head now, Mary. All this is between you an' me.
I'll just mention it to pa'son, an' make up my mind whether he sees the
meanin' on 't. But don't you say one word to your father an' mother. To
them it don't signify."
Mary nodded wisely. She knew, with the philosophy of a much older
experience, that she and gran'ther lived alone in a nest of kindly
aliens. As if their mention evoked a foreign presence, her mother's
voice sounded that instant from the door:--
"Mary, why under the sun didn't you come back? I sent word for you to
run over with her, father, an' have some supper. Well, if you two ain't
thick!"
"We're havin' a dish o' discourse," returned Nicholas quietly.
Young Nick's Hattie was forty-five, but she looked much younger. Extreme
plumpness had insured her against wrinkles, and her light brown hair was
banded smoothly back. Hattie's originality lay in a desire for color,
and therein she overstepped the bounds of all decorum. It was customary
to see her barred across with enormous plaids, or stripes going the
broad way; and so long had she lived under such insignia that no one
would have known her without them. She came in with soft, heavy
footfalls, and sat down in the little rocking-chair at Mr. Oldfield's
right hand. She smiled at him, somewhat nervously.
"Well, father," said she, "you got home!"
Nicholas helped himself to another half cup of tea, after holding the
teapot tentatively across to Mary's mug.
"Yes," he answered, in his dry and gentle fashion, "I've got home."
Hattie began rocking, in a rapid staccato, to punctuate her speech.
"Well," she began, "I'll say my say an' done with it. There's goin' to
be a town-meetin' to-night, an' Nicholas sent me over to mention it.
'Father'll want to be on hand,' says he."
Mr. Oldfield pushed back his cup, and then his chair. He bent his keen
blue eyes upon her.
"Town meetin' this time o' year?" said he. "What for?"
"Oh, it's about the celebration. Old Mr. Eaton"--
"What Eaton?"
"William W."
"He that went away in war time, an' made money in wool? Old War-Wool
Eaton?"
Nicholas nodded, at her assent, and his look blackened. He knew what was
coming.
"Well, he sent word he meant to give us a clock, same as he had other
towns, an' he wanted we should have it up before the celebration."
"Yes," said Nicholas Oldfield, "he'll give us a clock, will he? I knew
he would. I've said 'twas comin'. He give one to Saltash; he's gi'n 'em
all over the county. Do you know what them clocks be? They've got
letters round the dial, in place o' figgers; an' the letters spell out,
'In Memory of Me.' An' down to Saltash they've gi'n up sayin' it's
quarter arter twelve, or the like o' that. They say it's O minutes past
I."
He glared at her. Young Nick's Hattie thought she had never heard father
speak with such bitterness; and indeed it was true. Never before had he
been assailed on his own ground; it seemed as if the whole township now
conspired to bait him.
"Well" she remarked weakly, "I dunno's it does any hurt, so long as they
can tell what they mean by it."
Nicholas threw her a pitying glance. He scorned to waste eternal truth
on one so dull.
"Well," she went on, in desperation, "that ain't all, neither. I might
as well say the whole, an' done with it. He wants 'em to set up the
clock on the meetin'-house; an' seeing the tower mightn't be firm
enough, he'll build it up higher, an' give 'em a new bell."
Now, indeed, Nicholas Oldfield was in the case of Shylock, when he
learned his daughter's limit of larceny. "The curse never fell upon our
nation till now," so he might have quoted. "I never felt it till now."
He rose from his chair.
"In the name of God Almighty," he asked solemnly, "what do they want of
a new bell?"
Young Nick's Hattie gave an involuntary cry.
"O father!" she entreated, "don't say such words. I never see you take
on so. What under the sun has got into you?"
Nicholas made no reply. Slowly and methodically he was putting the
dishes into the wooden sink. When he touched Mary's pink mug, his
fingers trembled a little; but he did not look at her. He knew she
understood. Young Nick's Hattie rolled her hands nervously in her apron,
and then unrolled them, and smoothed the apron down. She gathered
herself desperately.
"Well, father," she said, "I've got another arrant. I said I'd do it,
an' I will; but I dunno how you'll take it."
"O mother!" cried Mary, "don't!"
"What is it?" asked Nicholas, folding the tablecloth in careful creases.
"Say your say an' git it over."
Hattie rocked faster and faster. Even in the stress of the moment
Nicholas remembered that the old chair was well made, and true to its
equilibrium.
"Well," said she, "Luella an' Freeman Henry come over here this very
day, an' Freeman Henry's possessed you should sell him the Flat-Iron
Lot."
"Wants the Flat-Iron Lot, does he?" inquired Nicholas grimly. "What's he
made up his mind to do with it?"
"He wants to build," answered Hattie, momentarily encouraged. "He says
he'll be glad to ride over to work, every mornin' of his life, if he can
only feel 't he's settled in Tiverton for good. An' there's that lot on
high ground, right near the meetin'-house, as sightly a place as ever
was, an' no good to you,--there ain't half a load o' hay cut there in a
season,--an' he'd pay the full vally"--
"Stop!" called Nicholas; and though his tone was conversational, Hattie
paused, open-mouthed, in full swing. He turned and faced her. "Hattie,"
said he, "did you know that the fust settlers of this town had anything
to do with that lot o' land?"
"No, I didn't know it," answered Hattie blankly.
"I guess you didn't," concurred Nicholas. He had gone back to his old
gentleness of voice. "An' 't wouldn't ha' meant nothin' to ye, if ye had
known it. Now, you harken to me! It's my last word. That Flat-Iron Lot
stays under this name so long as I'm above ground. When I'm gone, you
can do as ye like. Now, I don't want to hurry ye, but I'm goin' down to
vote."
Hattie rose, abashed and nearly terrified. "Well!" said she vacantly.
"Well!" Nicholas had taken the broom, under pretext of brushing up the
crumbs, and he seemed literally to be sweeping her away. It was a wind
of destiny; and scudding softly and heavily before it, she disappeared
in the gathering dusk.
"Mary!" she called from the gate, "Mary! Guess you better come along
with me."
Mary did not hear. She was standing by Nicholas, holding the edge of his
sleeve. The unaccustomed action was significant; it bespoke a passionate
loyalty. Her blue eyes were on fire, and two hot tears stood in them,
unstanched. "O gran'ther!" she cried, "don't you let 'em have it. I wish
I was father. I'd see!"
Nicholas Oldfield stood quite still, obedient to that touch upon his
arm.
"It's the name, Mary," said he. "Why, Freeman Henry's a Titcomb! He
can't help that. But he needn't think he can buy Oldfield land, an' set
up a house there, as if 't was all in the day's work. Why, Mary, I meant
to leave that land to you! An' p'raps you won't marry. Nobody knows.
Then, 't would stand in the name a mite longer."
Mary blushed a little, but her eyes never wavered.
"No, gran'ther," said she firmly, "I sha'n't ever marry anybody."
"Well, ye can't tell," responded Nicholas, with a sigh. "Ye can't tell.
He might take your name if he wanted ye enough; but I should call it a
poor tool that would do that."
He sighed again, as he reached for his hat, and Mary and he went out of
the house together, hand in hand. At the gate they parted, and Nicholas
took his way to the schoolhouse, where the town fathers were already
assembled.
Since he passed over it that afternoon, the road had changed, responsive
to twilight and the coming dark. Nicholas knew it in all its phases,
from the dawn of spring, vocal with the peeping of frogs, to the revery
of winter, the silence of snow, and a hopeful glow in the west. Just
here, by the barberry bush at the corner, he had stood still under the
spell of Northern Lights. That was the night when his wife lay first in
Tiverton churchyard; and he remembered, as a part of the strangeness and
wonder of the time, how the north had streamed, and the neighboring
houses had been rosy red. But at this hour of the brooding, sultry fall,
there was a bitter fragrance in the air, and the world seemed tuned to
the somnolent sound of crickets, singing the fields to sleep. That one
little note brooded over the earth, and all the living things upon it:
hovering, and crooning, and lulling them to the rest decreed from of
old. The homely beauty of it smote upon him, though it could not cheer.
A hideous progress seemed to threaten, not alone the few details it
touched, but all the sweet, familiar things of life. Old War-Wool
Eaton, in assailing the town's historic peace, menaced also the crickets
and the breath of asters in the air. He was the rampant spirit of an
awful change. So, in the bitterness of revolt, Nicholas Oldfield marched
on, and stepped silently into the little schoolhouse, to meet his
fellows. They were standing about in groups, each laying down the law
according to his kind. The doors were wide open, and Nicholas felt as if
he had brought in with him the sounds of coming night. They kept him
sane, so that he could hold his own, as he might not have done in a room
full of winter brightness.
"Hullo!" cried Caleb Rivers, in his neutral voice. "Here's Mr. Oldfield.
Well, Mr. Oldfield, there's a good deal on hand."
"Called any votes?" asked Nicholas.
"Well, no," said Caleb, scraping his chin. "I guess we're sort o' takin'
the sense o' the meetin'."
"Good deal like a quiltin' so fur," remarked Brad Freeman indulgently.
"All gab an' no git there!"
"They tell me," said Uncle Eli Pike, approaching Nicholas as if he had
something to confide, "that out west, where they have them new-fangled
clocks, they're all lighted up with 'lectricity."
"Do they so?" asked Caleb, but Nicholas returned, with an unwonted
fierceness:--
"Does that go to the right spot with you? Do you want to see a
clock-face starin' over Tiverton, like a full moon, chargin' ye to keep
Old War-Wool Eaton in memory?"
"Well, no," replied Eli gently, "I dunno's I do, an' I dunno but I
do."
"Might set a lantern back o' the dial, an' take turns lightin' on 't,"
suggested Brad Freeman.
"Might carve out a jack-o'-lantern like Old Eaton's face," supplemented
Tom O'Neil irreverently.
"Well," concluded Rivers, "I guess, when all's said and done, we might
as well take the clock, an' bell, too. When a man makes a fair offer,
it's no more'n civil to close with it. Ye can't rightly heave it back
ag'in."
"My argyment is," put in Ebenezer Tolman, who knew how to lay dollar by
dollar, "if he's willin' to do one thing for the town, he's willin' to
do another. S'pose he offered us a new brick meetin'-house--or a fancy
gate to the cemet'ry! Or s'pose he had it in mind to fill in that low
land, so 't we could bury there! Why, he could bring the town right up!
Or, take it t' other way round; he could put every dollar he's got into
Sudleigh."
Nicholas Oldfield groaned, but in the stress of voices no one heard him.
He slipped about from one group to another, and always the sentiment was
the same. A few smiled at Old War-Wool Eaton, who desired so urgently
to be remembered, when no one was likely to forget him; but all agreed
that it was, at the worst, a harmless and natural folly.
"Let him be remembered," said one, with a large impartiality. "'T won't
do us no hurt, an' we shall have the clock an' bell."
Just as the meeting was called to order, Nicholas Oldfield stole away,
and no one missed him. The proceedings began with some animated
discussion, all tending one way. Cupidity had entered into the public
soul, and everybody professed himself willing to take the clock, lest,
by refusing, some golden future should be marred. Let Old Eaton have his
way, if thereby they might beguile him into paving theirs. Let the town
grow. Talk was very full and free; but when the moment came for taking a
vote, an unexpected sound broke roundly on the air. It was the bell of
the old church. One! it tolled. Each man looked at his neighbor. Had
death entered the village, and they unaware? Two! three! it went
solemnly on, the mellow cadence scarcely dying before another stroke
renewed it. The sexton was Simeon Pease, a little red-headed man, a
hunchback, abnormally strong. Suddenly he rose in amazement. His face
looked ashen.
"Suthin's tollin' the bell!" he gasped. "The bell's a-tollin' an' I
ain't there!"
A new element of mystery and terror sprang to life.
"The sax'on's here!" whispered one and another. But nobody stirred, for
nobody would lose count. Twenty-three! the dead was young. Twenty-four!
and so it marched and marched, to thirty and thirty-five. They looked
about them, taking a swift inventory of familiar faces, and more than
one man felt a tightening about his heart, at thought of the women-folk
at home. The record climbed to middle-age, and tolled majestically
beyond it, like a life ripening to victorious close. Sixty! seventy!
eighty-one!
"It ain't Pa'son True!" whispered an awe-struck voice.
Then on it beat, to the completed century.
The women of Tiverton, in afterwards weighing the immobility of their
public representatives under this mysterious clangor, dwelt upon the
fact with scorn.
"Well, I should think you was smart!" cried sundry of them in turn. "Set
there like a bump on a log, an' wonder what's the matter! Never heard of
anything so numb in all my born days. If I was a man, I guess I'd see!"
It was Brad Freeman who broke the spell, with a sudden thought and
cry,--
"By thunder! maybe's suthin's afire!"
He leaped to his feet, and with long, loping strides made his way up
the hill to Tiverton church. The men, in one excited, surging rabble,
followed him. The women were before them. They, too, had heard the
tolling for the unknown dead, and had climbed a quicker way, leaving
fire and cradle behind. At the very moment when they were pressing, men
and women, to the open church door, the last lingering clang had ceased,
the bell lay humming itself to rest, and Nicholas Oldfield strode out
and faced them. By this time, factions had broken up, and each woman
instinctively sought her husband's side, assuring herself of protection
against the unresting things of the spirit. Young Nick's Hattie found
her lawful ally, with the rest.
"My soul!" said she in a whisper, "it's father!"
Nicholas touched her arm in warning, and stood silent. He felt that the
waters were troubled, as he had known them to be once or twice in his
boyhood.
"He's got his mad up," remarked Young Nick to himself. "Stan' from
under!"
Nicholas strode through the crowd, and it separated to let him pass.
There was about him at that moment an amazing physical energy, apparent
even in the dark. He seemed a different man, and one woman whispered to
another, "Why, that can't be Mr. Oldfield! It's a head taller."
He walked across the green, and the crowd turned also, to follow him.
There, just opposite the church, lay his own Flat-Iron Lot, and he
stepped into it, over the low stone boundary, and turned about.
"Don't ye come no nearer," called he. "This is my land. Don't ye set
foot on it."
The Flat-Iron Lot was a triangular piece of ground, rich in drooping
elms, and otherwise varied only by a great boulder looming up within the
wall nearest the church. Nicholas paused for a moment where he was; then
with a thought of being the better heard, he turned, ran up the rough
side of the boulder, and faced his fellows. As he stood there, illumined
by the rising moon, he seemed colossal.
"He'll break his infernal old neck!" said Brad Freeman admiringly. But
no one answered, for Nicholas Oldfield had begun to speak.
"Don't ye set foot on my land!" he repeated. "Ye ain't wuth it. Do you
know what this land is? It belonged to a man that settled in a place
that knows enough to celebrate its foundin', but don't know enough to
prize what's fell to it. Do you know what I was doin' of, when I tolled
that bell? I'll tell ye. I tolled a hunderd an' ten strokes. That's the
age of the bell you're goin' to throw aside to flatter up a man that
made money out o' the war. A hunderd an' twelve years ago that bell was
cast in England; a hunderd an' ten years ago 't was sent over here."
"Now, how's father know that?" whispered Hattie disparagingly.
"I've cast my vote. Them hunderd an' ten strokes is all the voice I'll
have in the matter, or any matter, so long as I live in this
God-forsaken town. I'd ruther die than talk over a thing like that in
open meetin'. It's an insult to them that went before ye, an' fit hunger
and cold an' Injuns. I've got only one thing more to say," he continued,
and some fancied there came a little break in his voice. "When ye take
the old bell down, send her out to sea, an' sink her; or bury her deep
enough in the woods, so 't nobody'll git at her till the Judgment Day."
With one descending step, he seemed to melt away into the darkness; and
though every one stood quite still, expectant, there was no sound, save
that of the crickets and the night. He had gone, and left them
trembling. Well as they knew him, he had all the effect of some strange
herald, freighted with wisdom from another sphere.
"Well, I swear!" said Brad Freeman, at length, and as if a word could
shiver the spell, men and woman turned silently about and went down the
hill. When they reached a lower plane, they stopped to talk a little,
and once indoors, discussion had its way. Young Nick and Hattie had
walked side by side, feeling that the eyes of the town were on them,
reading their emblazoned names. But Mary marched behind them, solemnly
and alone. She held her head very high, knowing what her kinsfolk
thought: that gran'ther had disgraced them. A passionate protest rose
within her.
That night, everybody watched the old house in the shade of the poplars,
to see if Nicholas had "lighted up." But the windows lay dark, and
little Mary, slipping over across the orchard, when her mother thought
her safe in bed, tried the door in vain. She pushed at it wildly, and
then ran round to the front, charging against the sentinel hollyhocks,
and letting the knocker fall with a desperate and repeated clang. The
noise she had herself evoked frightened her more than the stillness, and
she fled home again, crying softly, and pursued by all the unresponsive
presences of night.
For weeks Tiverton lay in a state of hushed expectancy; one miracle
seemed to promise another. But Nicholas Oldfield's house was really
closed; the windows shone blankly at men and women who passed,
interrogating it. Young Nick and his Hattie had nothing to say, after
Hattie's one unguarded admission that she didn't know what possessed
father. The village felt that it had been arraigned before some high
tribunal, only to be found lacking. It had an irritated conviction that,
meaning no harm, it should not have been dealt with so harshly; and was
even moved to declare that, if Nicholas Oldfield knew so much about what
was past and gone, he needn't have waited till the trump o' doom to say
so. But, somehow, the affair of clock and bell could not be at once
revived, and a vague letter was dispatched to the prospective donor
stating that, in regard to his generous offer, no decision could at the
moment be reached; the town was too busy in preparing for its
celebration, which would take place in something over two weeks; after
that the question would be considered. The truth was that, at the bottom
of each heart, still lurked the natural cupidity of the loyal citizen
who will not see his town denied; but side by side with that desire for
the march of progress, walked the spectre of Nicholas Oldfield's wrath.
The trembling consciousness prevailed that he might at any moment
descend again, wrapped in that inexplicable atmosphere of loftier
meanings.
Still, Tiverton was glad to put the question by, for she had enough to
do. The celebration knocked at the door, and no one was ready. Only Brad
Freeman, always behindhand, save at some momentary exigency of rod or
gun, was fulfilling the prophecy that the last shall be first. For he
had, out of the spontaneity of genius, elected to do one deed for that
great day, and his work was all but accomplished. In public conclave
assembled to discuss the parade, he had offered to make an elephant, to
lead the van. Tiverton roared, and then, finding him gravely silent,
remained, with gaping mouth, to hear his story. It seemed, then, that
Brad had always cherished one dear ambition. He would fain fashion an
elephant; and having never heard of Frankenstein, he lacked anticipation
of the dramatic finale likely to attend a meddling with the creative
powers. He did not confess, save once to his own wife, how many nights
he had lain awake, in their little dark bedroom, planning the anatomy of
the eastern lord; he simply said that he "wanted to make the critter,"
and he thought he could do it. Immediately the town gave him to
understand that he had full power to draw upon the public treasury, to
the extent of one elephant; and the youth, who always flocked adoringly
about him, intimated that they were with him, heart and soul. Thereupon,
in Eli Pike's barn, selected as of goodly size, creation reveled, the
while a couple of men, chosen for their true eye and practiced hand,
went into the woods, and chopped down two beautiful slender trees for
tusks. For many a day now, the atmosphere of sacred art had hung about
that barn. Brad was a maker, and everybody felt it. Fired by no
tradition of the horse that went to the undoing of Troy, and with no
plan before him, he set his framework together, nailing with unerring
hand. Did he need a design, he who had brooded over his bliss these many
months when Tiverton thought he was "jest lazin' round?" Nay, it was to
be "all wrought out of the carver's brain," and the brain was ready.
Often have I wished some worthy chronicler had been at hand when
Tiverton sat by at the making of the elephant; and then again I have
realized that, though the atmosphere was highly charged, it may have
been void of homely talk. For this was a serious moment, and even when
Brad gave sandpaper and glass into the hands of Lothrop Wilson, the
cooper, bidding him smooth and polish the tusks, there was no jealousy:
only a solemn sense that Mr. Wilson had been greatly favored. Brad's
wife sewed together a dark slate-colored cambric, for the elephant's
hide, and wet and wrinkled it, as her husband bade her, for the
shambling shoulders and flanks. It was she who made the ears, from a
pattern cunningly conceived; and she stuffed the legs with fine shavings
brought from the planing-mill at Sudleigh. Then there came an
intoxicating day when the trunk took shape, the glass-bottle eyes were
inserted, and Brad sprung upon a breathless world his one surprise.
Between the creature's fore-legs, he disclosed an opening, saying
meantime to the smallest Crane boy,--
"You crawl up there!"
The Crane boy was not valiant, but he reasoned that it was better to
seek an unguessed fate within the elephant than to refuse immortal
glory. Trembling, he crept into the hole, and was eclipsed.
"Now put your hand up an' grip that rope that's hangin' there,"
commanded Brad. Perhaps he, too, trembled a little. The heart beats fast
when we approach a great fruition.
"Pull it! Easy, now! easy!"
The boy pulled, and the elephant moved his trunk. He stretched it out,
he drew it in. Never was such a miracle before. And Tiverton, drunk with
glory, clapped and shouted until the women-folk clutched their
sunbonnets and ran to see. No situation since the war had ever excited
such ferment. Brad was the hero of his town. But now arose a natural
rivalry, the reaction from great, impersonal joy in noble work. What
lad, on that final day, should ride within the elephant, and move his
trunk? The Crane boy contended passionately that he held the right of
possession. Had he not been selected first? Others wept at home and
argued the case abroad, until it became a common thing to see two young
scions of Tiverton grappling in dusty roadways, or stoning each other
from afar. The public accommodated itself to such spectacles, and
grown-up relatives, when they came upon little sons rolling over and
over, or sitting triumphantly, the one upon another's chest, would only
remark, as they gripped two shirt collars, and dragged the combatants
apart:--
"Now, what do you want to act so for? Brad'll pick out the one he thinks
best. He's got the say."
In vain did mothers argue, at twilight time, when the little dusty legs
in overalls were still, and stubbed toes did their last wriggling for
the day, that the boy who moved the trunk could not possibly see the
rest of the procession. The candidates, to a boy, rejected that specious
plea.
"What do I want to see anything for, if I can jest set inside that
elephant?" sobbed the Crane boy angrily. And under every roof the wail
was repeated in many keys.
Meantime, the log cabin had been going steadily up, and a week before
the great day, it was completed. This was a typical scene-setting,--the
cabin of a first settler,--and through one wild leap of fancy it became
suddenly and dramatically dignified.
"For the land's sake!" said aunt Lucindy, when she went by and saw it
standing, in modest worth, "ain't they goin' to do anythin' with it?
Jest let it set there? Why under the sun don't they have a party of
Injuns tackle it?"
The woman who heard repeated the remark as a sample of aunt Lucindy's
desire to have everything "all of a whew;" but when it came to the ears
of a certain young man who had sat brooding, in silent emulation, over
the birth of the elephant, he rose, with fire in his eye, and went to
seek his mates. Indians there should be, and he, by right of first
desire, should become their leader. Thereupon, turkey feathers came into
great demand, and wattled fowl, once glorious, went drooping dejectedly
about, while maidens sat in doorways sewing wampum and leggings for
their favored swains. The first rehearsal of this aboriginal drama was
not an entire success, because the leader, being unimaginative though
faithful, decreed that faces should be blackened with burnt cork; and
the result was a tribe of the African race, greatly astonished at their
own appearance in the family mirror. Then the doctor suggested walnut
juice, and all went conformably again. But each man wanted to be an
Indian, and no one professed himself willing to suffer the attack.
"I'll stay in the cabin, if I can shoot, an' drop a redskin every time,"
said Dana Marden stubbornly; but no redskin would consent to be dropped,
and naturally no settler could yield. It would ill befit that glorious
day to see the log cabin taken; but, on the other hand, what loyal
citizen could allow himself to be defeated, even as a skulking redman,
at the very hour of Tiverton's triumph? For a time a peaceful solution
was promised by the doctor, who proposed that a party of settlers on
horseback should come to the rescue, just when a settler's wife, within
the cabin, was in danger of immolation. That seemed logical and right,
and for days thereafter young men on astonished farm horses went
sweeping down Tiverton Street, alternately pursuing and pursued, while
Isabel North, as Priscilla, the Puritan maiden, trembled realistically
at the cabin door. Just why she was to be Priscilla, a daughter of
Massachusetts, Isabel never knew; the name had struck the popular fancy,
and she made her costume accordingly. But one day, when young Tiverton
was galloping about the town, to the sound of ecstatic yells, a farmer
drew up his horse to inquire:--
"Now see here! there's one thing that's got to be settled. When the day
comes, who's goin' to beat?"
An Indian, his face scarlet with much sound, and his later state not yet
apparent, in that his wampum, blanket, and horsehair wig lay at home, on
the best-room bed, made answer hoarsely, "We be!"
"Not by a long chalk!" returned the other, and the settlers growled in
unison. They had all a patriot's pride in upholding white blood against
red.
"Well, by gum! then you can look out for your own Injuns!" returned
their chief. "My last gun's fired."
Settlers and Indians turned sulkily about; they rode home in two
separate factions, and the streets were stilled. Isabel North went
faithfully on, making her Priscilla dress, but it seemed, in those days,
as if she might remain in her log cabin, unattacked and undefended.
Tiverton was to be deprived of its one dramatic spectacle. Young men met
one another in the streets, remarked gloomily, "How are ye?" and passed
by. There were no more curdling yells at which even the oxen lifted
their dull ears; and one youth went so far as to pack his Indian suit
sadly away in the garret, as a jilted girl might lay aside her wedding
gown. It was a sullen and all but universal feud.
Now in all this time two prominent citizens had let public opinion riot
as it would,--the minister and the doctor. The minister, a grave-faced,
brown-bearded young man, had seen fit to get run down, and have an
attack of slow fever, from which he was just recovering; and the doctor
had been spending most of his time in Saltash, with an epidemic of
mumps. But the mumps subsided, and the minister gained strength; so,
being public-spirited men, these two at once concerned themselves in
village affairs. The first thing the minister did was to call on
Nicholas Oldfield, and Young Nick's Hattie saw him there, knocking at
the front door.
"Mary! Mary!" cried she, "if there ain't the young pa'son over to your
grandpa's. I dunno when anybody's called there, he's away so much. Like
as not he's heard how father carried on that night, an' now he's got
out, he's come right over, first thing, to tell him what folks think."
Mary looked up from the serpentine braid she was crocheting.
"Well, I guess he'd better not," she threatened. And her mother,
absorbed by curiosity, contented herself with the reproof implied in a
shaken head and pursed-up lips.
A sad and curious change had befallen Mary. She looked older. One week
had dimmed her brightness, and little puckers between her eyes were
telling a story of anxious care. For gran'ther had been home without her
seeing him. Mary felt as if he had repudiated the town. She knew well
that he had not abandoned her with it, but she could guess what the loss
of larger issues meant to him. Young Nick, if he had been in the habit
of expressing himself, would have said that father's mad was still up.
Mary knew he was grieved, and she grieved also. She had not expected him
until the end of the week. Then watching wistfully, she saw the
darkness come, and knew next day would bring him; but the next day it
was the same. One placid afternoon, a quick thought assailed her, and
stained her cheek with crimson. She laid down the sheet which was her
"stent" of over-edge, and ran with flying feet to the little house.
Hanging by her hands upon the sill of the window nearest the clock, she
laid her ear to the glass. The clock was ticking serenely, as of old.
Gran'ther had been home to wind it. So he had come in the night, and
slipped away again in silence!
       *       *       *       *       *
"There! he's gi'n it up!" cried Hattie, still watching the minister.
"He's turnin' down the path. My land! he's headed this way. He's comin'
here. You beat up that cushion, an' throw open the best-room door. My
soul! if your grandpa's goin' to set the whole town by the ears, I wisht
he'd come home an' fight his own battles!"
Hattie did not look at her young daughter; but if she had looked, she
might have been amazed. Mary stood firm as iron; she was more than ever
a chip o' the old block.
When the young minister had somewhat weakly climbed the two front steps,
he elected not to sit in the best room, for he was a little chilly, and
would like the sun. Presently he was installed in the new cane-backed
rocker, and Mrs. Oldfield had offered him some currant wine.
"Though I dunno's you would," said she, anxiously flaunting a principle
righteous as his own. "I s'pose you're teetotal."
The minister would not have wine, and he could not stay.
"I've really come on business," said he. "Do you know anything about Mr.
Oldfield?"
So strong was the family conviction that Nicholas had involved them in
disgrace, that Mary glanced up fiercely, and her mother gave an
apologetic cough.
"Well," said Young Nick's Hattie, "I dunno's I know anything particular
about father."
"Where is he, I mean," asked the minister. "I want to see him. I've got
to."
"Gran'ther's gone away," announced Mary, looking up at him with hot and
loyal eyes. "We don't know where." Her fingers trembled, and she lost
her stitch. She was furious with herself for not being calmer. It seemed
as if gran'ther had a right to demand it of her. The minister bent his
brows impatiently.
"Why, I depended on seeing Mr. Oldfield," said he, with the
fractiousness of a man recently ill. "This sickness of mine has put me
back tremendously. I've got to make the address, and I don't know what
to say. I meant to read town records and hunt up old stories; and then
when I was sick I thought, 'Never mind! Mr. Oldfield will have it all at
his tongue's end.' And now he isn't here, and I'm all at sea without
him."
This was perhaps the first time that Young Nick's Hattie had ever looked
upon her father's pursuits with anything but a pitying eye. A frown of
perplexity grew between her brows. Her brain ached in expanding. Mary
leaned forward, her face irradiated with pure delight.
"Why, yes," said she, at once accepting the minister for a friend,
"gran'ther could tell you, if he was here. He knows everything."
"You see," continued the minister, now addressing her, "there are facts
enough that are common talk about the town, but we only half know them.
The first settlers came from Devon. Well, where did they enter the town?
From which point? Sudleigh side, or along by the river? I incline to the
river. The doctor says it would be a fine symbolic thing to take the
procession up to the church by the very way the first settlers came in.
But where was it? I don't know, and nobody does, unless it's Nicholas
Oldfield."
Mary folded her hands, in proud composure.
"Yes, sir," said she, "gran'ther knows. He could tell you, if he was
here."
"I should like to inquire what makes you so certain, Mary Oldfield,"
asked her mother, with the natural irritation of the unprepared. "I
should like to know how father's got hold of things pa'son and doctor
ain't neither of 'em heard of?"
"Why," said the minister, rising, "he's simply crammed with town
legends. He can repeat them by the yard. He's a local historian. But
then, I needn't tell you that; you know what an untiring student he has
been." And he went away thoughtful and discouraged, omitting, as Hattie
realized with awe, to offer prayer.
Mary stepped joyously about, getting supper and singing "Hearken, Ye
Sprightly!" in an exultant voice; but her mother brooded. It was not
until dusk, when the three sat before the clock-room fire, "blazed"
rather for company than warmth, that Young Nick's Hattie opened her
mouth and spoke.
"Mary," said she, "how'd you find out your grandpa was such great
shakes?"
Mary was in some things much older than her mother. She answered
demurely, "I don't know as I can say."
"Nick," continued Hattie, turning to her spouse, "did you ever hear your
father was smarter'n the minister an' doctor put together, so 't they
had to run round beseechin' him to tell 'em how to act?"
