London sky and the monuments looming through : or 
am I again only muddling up my Zola ? You must have 
the sunsets — haven't you? 'No — what am I talking 
about ? Of course you look north. Well, they strike 
me as about the only thing you haven't. At the same 
time, it's not only because I envy you that I feel humil- 
iated. I ought to have sent you some flowers." He 
smote himself with horror, throwing back his head with 
a sudden thought.  ' Why in goodness, when I got your 
note, didn't I for once in my life do something really 
graceful ? I simply liked it and answered it. Here I am. 
But I've brought nothing. I haven't even brought a box 
of sweets. I'm not a man of the world." 
" Most of the flowers here," Nanda at last said, " come 
from Mr. Longdon. Don't you remember his gar- 
den ?" 
Vanderbank, in quick response, called it up. '  Dear 
yes — wasn't it charming ? And that morning you and I 
spent there" — he was so careful to be easy about it — 
 '  talking under the trees." 
"You had gone out to be quiet and read — " 
 ''And you came out to look after me. Well, I re- 
member," Van went on, ''that we had some good talk." 
The talk, Nanda's face implied, had become dim to 
her ; but there were other things. " You know he's a 
great gardener — I mean really one of the greatest. His 
  
garden is like a dinner in a house where the person — the
person of the house — thoroughly knows and cares
" I see. And he sends you dishes from the table." 
 '  Often — every week. That is, now that he's in townj 
his gardener does it." 
" Charming of them both V Vanderbank exclaimed  
''But his gardener — that extraordinarily tall fellow witl 
the long red beard — was almost as nice as himself, 
had talks with him too, and I remember every word he 
said. I remember he told me you asked questions thai 
showed 'a deal of study.' But I thought I had nevei 
seen, all round, such a charming lot of people — I meai 
as those, down there, that our friend has got about him. 
It's an awfully good note for a man, pleasant servants, 
always think, don't you ? Mr. Longdon's — and quite 
without their saying anything ; just from the sort of type 
and manner they had — struck me as a kind of chorus oi 
praise. The same with Mitchy's, at Mertle, I remember,'  
Van rambled on. " Mitchy's the sort of chap who mighl 
have awful ones, but I recollect telling him that on( 
quite felt as if it were with them one had come to stay. 
Good note, good note," he cheerfully repeated. "I'l 
bound to say, you know," he continued in this key, ''that 
you've a jolly sense for getting in with people who mak( 
you comfortable. Then, by-the-way, he's still in town ?'  
Nanda hesitated. " Do you mean Mr. Mitchy ?" 
" Oh, he is, I know — I met them two nights ago ; an( 
by-the-way again — don't let me forget — I want to speal 
to you about his wife. But I've not seen, do you know ? 
Mr. Longdon — which is really too awful. Twice, thrice. 
I think, have I at moments like this one snatched myselfj 
from pressure ; but there's no finding the old demon ai 
any earthly hour. When do you go — or does he onb 
come here ? Of course I see you've got the place arrangec 
for him. When I asked at his hotel at what hour he evei 
luas in, blest if the fellow didn't say 'Very often, sir, 
 
about ten r And when I said 'Ten p.m.?' he quite 
laughed at my innocence over a person of such habits. 
What are his habits then now, and what are you putting 
him up to ? Seriously," Vanderbank pursued, " I am 
awfully sorry, and I wonder if, the first time youVe a 
chance, you'd kindly tell him you've heard me say so and 
that I mean yet to run him to earth. The same, really, 
with the Mitchys. I didn't, somehow, the other night, 
in such a lot of people, get at them. But I sat opposite 
to Aggie all through dinner, and that puts me in mind. 
I should like volumes from you about Aggie, please. 
It's too revolting of me not to go to see her. But every 
one knows I'm busy. We're up to our necks !" 
" I can't tell you," said Nanda, '  how kind I think it 
of you to have found, with all you have to do, a moment 
for this. But please, without delay, let me tell you — " 
Practically, however, he would let her tell him nothing ; 
his almost aggressive friendly optimism clung so to refer- 
ences of short range.  ' Don't mention it, please. It's 
too charming of you to squeeze me in. To see you, more- 
over, does me good. Quite distinct good. And your 
writing me touched me — oh, but really. There were all 
sorts of old things in it." Then he broke out, once more, 
on her books, one of which, for some minutes past, he 
had held in his hand. ''I see you go in for sets — and, 
my dear child, upon my word, I see, hig sets. What's 
this?— 'Vol. 23: The British Poets.' Vol. 23 is de- 
lightful — do tell me about Vol. 23. Are you doing much 
in the British Poets ? But when the deuce, you wonder- 
ful being, do you find time to read ?  I don't find any — 
it's too hideous. One relapses, in London, into illiteracy 
and barbarism. I have to keep up a false glitter to hide, 
in conversation, my rapidly increasing ignorance : I 
should be so ashamed, after all, to see other people not 
shocked by it. But teach me, teach me !" he gaily 
went on. 
  
'' The British Poets' Nanda immediately answered, 
'  were given me by Mr. Longdon, who has given me all 
the good books I have except a few — those in that top 
row — that have been given me at different times by Mr. 
Mitchy. Mr. Mitchy has sent me flowers too, as well as 
Mr. Longdon. And they're both — since we've spoken of 
my seeing them — coming, by appointment, this after- 
noon ; not together, but Mr. Mitchy at 5.30 and Mr. 
Longdon at 6.30." 
She had spoken as with conscious promptitude, mak- 
ing up for what she had not yet succeeded in saying by 
a quick, complete statement of her case. She was evi- 
dently also going on with more, but her actual visitor, 
with a laugh, had already taken her up.  '  You are mak- 
ing a day of it, and you run us like railway trains !" He 
looked at his watch. " Have  I then time ?" 
 ''It seems to me I should say ' Have If But it's not 
half past four," Nanda went on, '' and though I've some- 
thing very particular, of course, to say to you, it won't 
take long. They don't bring tea till five, and you must 
surely stay till that. I had already written to you when 
they each, for the same reason, proposed this afternoon. 
They go out of town to-morrow for Sunday." 
 ' Oh, I see — and they have to see you first. What 
an influence you exert, you know, on people's be- 
havior !" 
She continued as literal as her friend was facetious : 
'  Well, it just happened so, and it didn't matter, since, 
on my asking you, don't you know ? to choose your time, 
you had taken, as suiting you best, this comparatively 
early hour." 
" Oh, perfectly." But he again had his watch out. 
"I've a job, perversely — that was my reason — on the 
other side of the world ; which, by-the-way, I'm afraid, 
won't permit me to wait for tea. My tea doesn't matter." 
The watch went back to his ppcket.  'I'm sorry to say 
 
I must be off before five. It has been deliglitfnl at all 
events to see you again." 
He was on his feet as he spoke, and though he had 
been half the time on his feet his last words gave the 
effect of his moving almost immediatel}'- to the door. It 
appeared to come out with them rather clearer than be- 
fore that he was embarrassed enough really to need help, 
and it was doubtless the measure she after an instant took 
of this that enabled Nanda, with a quietness all her own, 
to draw to herself a little more of the situation. The 
quietness was plainly determined for her by a quick vis- 
ion of its being the best assistance she could show. Had 
he an inward terror that explained his superficial nervous- 
ness, the incoherence of a loquacity designed, it would 
seem, to check, in each direction, her advance ? He 
only fed it, in that case, by allowing his precautionary 
benevolence to put him in so much deeper. Where in- 
deed could he have supposed that she wanted to come 
out, and what that she could ever do for him would really 
be so beautiful as this present chance to smooth his con- 
fusion and add as much as possible to that refined satis- 
faction with himself which would proceed from his hav- 
ing dealt with a difficult hour in a gallant and delicate 
way ? To force upon him an awkwardness was like forc- 
ing a disfigurement or a hurt, so that at the end of a 
minute during which the expression of her face became 
a kind of uplifted view of her opportunity, she arrived at 
the appearance of having changed places with him and 
of their being together precisely in order that he — not 
she — should be let down easily. 
  
XXXVI 
''But surely you're not going already?'' she asked. 
ii Why in the world then do you suppose I appealed to 
you ?" 
"Bless me, no; Fve lots of time." He dropped, 
laughing for very eagerness, straight into another chair. 
''You're too awfully interesting. Is it really an 'ap- 
peal'?" Putting the question indeed, he could scarce 
even yet allow her a chance to answer it. "It's only 
that you make me a little nervous with your account of 
all the people who are going to tumble in. And there's 
one thing more," he quickly went on ; "I just want to 
make the point in case we should be interrupted. The 
whole fun is in seeing you this way alone." 
"Is that the point ?" Nanda, as he took breath, gravely 
asked. 
"That's a part of it — I feel it, I assure you, to be 
charming. But what I meant — if you'd only give me 
time, you know, to put in a word — is, what, for that 
matter, I've already told you : that it almost spoils my 
pleasure for you to keep reminding me that a bit of luck 
like this — luck for me: I see you coming! — is after all, 
for you, but a question of business. Hang business ! 
Good — don't stab me with that paper-knife. I listen. 
What is the great affair ?" Then as it looked for an in- 
stant as if the words she had prepared had just, in the 
supreme pinch of her need, fallen apart, he once more 
tried his advantage. " Oh, if there's any difficulty about 
it, let it go — we'll take it for granted. There's one thing, 
at any rate — do let me say this — that I should like you to 
keep before me : I want, before I go, to make you light 
up for me the question of little Aggie. Oh, there are 
other questions too as to which I regard you as a perfect 
fountain of curious knowledge ! However, we'll take 
 
them one by one — the next some other time. Yon always 
seem to me to hold the strings of such a lot of queer lit- 
tle dramas. Have something on the shelf for me when 
we meet again. The thing, just now, is the outlook for 
Mitchy's affair. One cares enough for old Mitch to fancy 
one may feel safer for a lead or two. In fact I want 
regularly to turn you on." 
'' Ah, but the thing I happen to have taken it into my 
head to say to you," Nanda now placidly enough replied, 
''hasn't the least bit to do, I assure you, either with 
Aggie or with 'old Mitch.' If you don't Avant to hear 
it — want some Avay of getting off— please believe they 
won't help you a bit." It was quite, in fact, that she felt 
herself at last to have found the right tone. Nothing 
less than a conviction of this could have made her after 
an instant add : " What in the world, Mr. Van, are you 
afraid of ?" 
AYell, that it was the right Fone a single little minute 
was sufficient to prove — a minute, I must yet haste to sa} , 
big enough, in spite of its smallness, to contain the long- 
est look ever, on any occasion, exchanged between these 
friends. It was one of those looks — not so frequent, it 
must be admitted, as the muse of history, dealing at 
best in short cuts, is often, by the conditions of her trade, 
reduced to representing them — which, after they have 
come and gone, are felt not only to have changed rela- 
tions, but absolutely to have cleared the air. It certainly 
helped Yanderbank to find his answer. '' I'm only afraid, 
I think, of your conscience." 
He had been indeed, for the space, more helped than 
she. " My conscience ?" 
" Think it over — quite at your leisure — and some day 
you'll understand. There's no hurry," he continued — 
"no hurry. And when you do understand, it needn't 
make your existence a burden to you to fancy you must 
tell me." Oh, he was so kind — kinder than ever now. 
  
'' The thing is, you see, that  I  haven't a conscience. I 
only want my fun." 
They had on this a second look, also decidedly comfort- 
able, though discounted, as the phrase is, by the other, 
which had really, in its way, exhausted the possibilities 
of looks. " Oh, I want my fun too," said Nanda, '' and, 
little as it may strike you in some ways as looking like 
it, just this, I beg you to believe, is the real thing. 
What's at the bottom of it," she went on, " is a talk I 
had not long ago with mother." 
"Oh yes," Van returned with brightly blushing interest. 
"The fun,"he laughed, "that's to be got out of 'mother'!" 
" Oh, I'm not thinking so much of that. I'm thinking 
of any that she herself may be still in a position to pick 
up. Mine, now, don't you see ? is in making out how I 
can manage for this. Of course it's rather difficult," the 
girl pursued, "for me to tell you exactly what I mean." 
"Oh, but it isn't a bit difficult for me to understand 
you !" Vanderbank spoke, in his geniality, as if this were 
in fact the veriest trifle. "You've got your mother on 
your mind. That's very much what I mean by your con- 
science." 
Nanda had a fresh hesitation, but evidently unaccom- 
panied, at present, by any pain. " Don't you still like 
mamma ?" she at any rate quite successfully brought out. 
" I must tell you," she quickly subjoined, "that, though 
I've mentioned my talk with her as having finally led to 
my writing to you, it isn't in the least that she then sug- 
gested my putting you the question. I put it," she ex- 
plained, "quite off my own bat." 
The explanation, as an effect immediately produced, 
manifestly, for Vanderbank — and also on the spot — im- 
proved it. He sat back in his chair with a pleased — 
a distinctly exhilarated — sense of the combination. 
" You're an adorable family !" 
" Well then, if mother's adorable, why give her up ? 
 
That I don't mind admitting she did, the day I speak of, 
let me see that she feels you've done ; but without sug- 
gesting either — not a scrap, please believe — that I should 
make you any sort of scene about it. Of course, in the 
first place, she knows perfectly that anything like a scene 
would be no use. You couldn't make out even if you 
wanted," Nanda went on, ' that this is one. She won't 
hear us — will she ? — smashing the furniture. I didn't 
think, for a while, that I could do anything at all, and I 
worried myself, with that idea, half to death. Then sud- 
denly it came to me that I could do just what I'm doing 
now. You said a while ago that we must never be — you 
and I — anything but frank and natural. That's what I 
said to myself also — why not ? Here I am for you there- 
fore, as natural as a cold in your head. I just ask you 
— I even press you. It's because, as she said, you've 
practically ceased coming. Of course I know everything 
changes. It's the law — what is it ? — ' the great law ' of 
something or other. All sorts of things happen — things 
come to an end. She has more or less — by his marriage 
— lost Mitchy. I don't want her to lose everything. Do 
stick to her. What I really wanted to say to you — to 
bring it straight out — is that I don't believe you thor- 
oughly know how awfully she likes you. I hope my say- 
ing such a thing doesn't affect you as • immodest.' One 
never knows — but I don't much care if it does. I sup- 
pose it would be immodest if I were to say that I verily 
believe she's in love with you. Not, for that matter, that 
father would mind — he wouldn't mind, as he says, a two- 
penny rap. So "—she extraordinarily kept it up — ' you're 
welcome to any good the information may have for you : 
though that, I dare say, does sound hideous. No matter 
— if I produce any effect on you. That's the only thing 
I want. When I think of her downstairs there so often 
nowadays practically alone, I feel as if I could scarcely 
bear it. She's so fearfully young." 
  
This time at least her speech, while she went froi 
point to point, completely hushed him, though, after 
full glimpse of the direction it was taking, he ceased t( 
meet her eyes and only sat staring hard at the pattern ol 
the rug. Even when at last he spoke it was without 
looking up. " You're indeed, as she herself used to say, 
the modern daughter ! It takes that type to wish tc 
make a career for her parents.'  
" Oh,'' said Nanda, very simply, " it isn't a ' career 
exactly, is it — keeping hold of an old friend ; but it maj 
console a little, mayn't it, for the absence of one ? M 
all events I didn't want not to have spoken before it's to< 
late. Of course I don't know what's the matter betweei 
you, or if anything's really the matter at all. I don'l 
care, at any rate, what is — it can't be anything very badj 
Make it up, make it up — forget it. I don't pretenc 
that's a career for you any more than for her ; but there 
it is. I know how I sound — most patronizing and push- 
ing ; but nothing venture nothing have. You canH knoi 
how much you are to her. You're more to her, I veril
believe, than any one ever was. I hate to have the ap-j 
pearance of plotting anything about her behind hei 
back ; so I'll just say it once for all. She said once, ii 
speaking of it to a person who repeated it to me, thai 
you had done more for her than any one, because it wafi 
you who had really brought her out. It luas — you did, 
I saw it at the time myself. I was very small, but 
could see it. You'll say I must have been a most un- 
canny little wretch, and I dare say I was, and am keep- 
ing now the pleasant promise. That doesn't preveni 
one's feeling that when a person has brought a persoi 
out—" 
' A person should take the consequences," Vanderbanl 
broke in, " and see a person through ?" He could meet 
her now perfectly, and proceeded admirably to do it. 
''There's an immense deal in that, I admit — I admit.  
 
I'm bound to say I don't know quite what I did — one 
does these things, no doubt, with a fine unconsciousness : 
I should have thought indeed it was the other way round. 
But I assure you I accept all consequences and all re- 
sponsibilities. If you don't know what's the matter be- 
tween us, I'm sure  I  don't either. It can't be much — 
we'll look into it. I don't mean you and I — you mustn't 
be any more worried; but she and her so unwittingly 
faithless one. I haven't been so often, I know" — Van 
pleasantly kept his course. ' But there's a tide in the 
affairs of men — and of women, too, and of girls and of 
every one. You know what I mean — you know it for 
yourself. The great thing is that — bless both your hearts ! 
— one doesn't, one simply caiiH if one would, give your 
mother up. It's absurd to talk about it. Nobody ever 
did such a thing in his life. There she is, like the moon 
or the Marble Arch. I don't say, mind you," he candid- 
ly explained, '' that every one likes her equally : that's 
another affair. But no one who ever has liked her can 
afford ever again, for any long period, to do without her. 
There are too many stupid people — there's too much dull 
company. That, in London, is to be had by the ton ; 
your mother's intelligence, on the other hand, will al- 
ways have its price. One can talk with her, for a change. 
She's fine, fine, fine. So, my dear child, be quiet. She's 
a fixed star." 
" Oh, I know she is," Nanda said. " It's you—" 
'' Who may be only the flashing meteor ?" He sat and 
smiled at her. " I promise you then that your words have 
stayed me in my course. You've made me stand as still 
as Joshua made the sun." With which he got straight up. 
'  'Young,' you say she is ?" he, as if to make up for it, 
all the more sociably continued. ''It's not like anything 
else. She's youth. She's my youth — she was mine. And 
if you ever have a chance," he wound up, "do put infer 
me that, if she wants really to know, she's booked for my 
  
old age. She s clever enough, you know " — and Vander-
bank, laughing, went over for his hat — " to understanc 
what you tell her." 
]N'anda took this in with due attention ; she was als( 
now on her feet. ''And then she's so lovely." 
'  Awfully pretty r 
''I don't say it, as they say, you know," the girl con  
tinued, '  because she's mother, but I often think whei 
we're out that wherever she is — " 
" There's no one that, all round, really touches her ?'  
Vanderbank took it up with zeal.  ''Oh, so every one 
thinks, and in fact one's appreciation of the charming 
things that, in that way, are so intensely her own, cai 
scarcely breathe on them all lightly enough. And thenJ 
hang it, she has perceptions — which are not things thai 
run about the streets. She has surprises." He almosi 
broke down for vividness. " She has little ways." 
''Well, I'm glad you do like her," Nanda gravely rej 
plied. 
At this again he fairly faced her, his momentary si\ 
lence making it still more direct. "I like, you know- 
about as well as I ever liked anything, this wonderfa
idea of yours of putting in a plea for her solitude an< 
her youth. Don't think I do it injustice if I say — whicl 
is saying much — that it's quite as charming as it's amus- 
ing. And now good-by." 
He had put out his hand, but Nanda hesitated. " Youl 
won't wait for tea ?" 
"My dear child, I can't." He seemed to feel, how- 
ever, that something more must be said. " We shallj 
meet again. But it's getting on, isn't it, toward the gen- 
eral scatter ?" 
"Yes, and I hope that this year," she answered,  
"you'll have a good holiday." 
" Oh, we shall meet before that. I shall do what 
can, but upon my word I feel, you know," he laughed,
 
" that such a tuning-np as you've given me will last me 
a long time. It's like the high Alps.  Then with his 
hand out again he added : " Have you any plans your- 
self ?" 
So many, it might have seemed, that she had to take 
no time to think. "I dare say I shall be away a good 
deal.'' 
He candidly wondered. " With Mr. Longdon ?" 
"Yes — with him most.'' 
He had another pause. " Keally for a long time T' 
"A long, long one, I hope." 
" Your mother's willing again ?" 
" Oh, perfectly. And, you see, that's why." 
"Why?" She had said nothing more, and he failed 
to understand. 
" Why you mustn't too much leave her alone. DonHT 
Nanda brought out. 
"I won't. But," he presently added, "there are one 
or two things." 
" Well, what are they ?" 
He produced in some seriousness the first. " Won't 
she see, after all, the Mitchys . " 
"Not so much, either. That of course is now very 
different." 
Vanderbank hesitated. " But not for you, I gather — 
is it ? Don't you expect to see them ?" 
" Oh yes — I hope they'll come down." 
He moved away a little — not straight to the door. 
"To Beccles ? Funny place for them, a little though, 
isn't it ?" 
He had put the question as if for amusement, but 
Nanda took it literally. "Ah, not when they're invited 
so very very charmingly. Not when he wants them so." 
" Mr. Longdon ? Then that keeps up ?" 
" ' That ' ?"— she was at a loss. 
" I mean his intimacy — with Mitchy." 
" So far as it is an intimacy."
"But didn t yon, by-the-way " — and he looked ag; 
at his watch — " tell me they 'e just about to turn up 
gether ?" 
 ' Oh, not so very particularly together' 
"Mitchy first alone ?" Vanderbank asked. 
She had a smile that was dim, that was slightly 
strange. ''Unless you'll stay for company." 
''Thanks — impossible. And then Mr. Longdon alone 
"Unless Mitchy stays.'' 
He had another pause. " You haven't, after all, tol 
me about the efflorescence of his wife." 
" How can I if you don't give me time ?"    
" I see — of course not." He seemed to feel for an i   
stant the return of his curiosity. "Yet it won't do, will 
it ? to have her out before Mm? No, I must go." He 
came back to her, and at present she gave him a hand. 
" But if you do see Mr. Longdon alone will you do me a 
service ? I mean indeed not simply to-day, but with all 
other good chances ?" 
She waited. ''Any service. But which first ?" 
" Well," he returned in a moment, " let us call it 
bargain. I look after your mother — " 
" And I — ?" She had had to wait again. 
" Look after my good name. I mean for common de- 
cency to Mm. He has been of a kindness to mc that, 
when I think of my failure to return it, makes me blush 
from head to foot. I've odiously neglected him — by a 
complication of accidents. There are things I ought to 
have done that I haven't. There's one in particular — 
but it doesn't matter. And I haven't even explained 
about that. I've been a brute, and I didn't mean it, and 
I couldn't help it. But there it is. Say a good word for 
me. Show him somehow or other that I'm not a brute. 
In short," the young man said, quite flushed once more 
with the intensity of his thought, "let us have it that 
you may quite trust me, if you'll let me a little — just for 
my character as a gentleman — trust you.'' 
' Ah, you may trust me," Nanda replied with her 
hand-shake. 
'' Good-by then !" he called from the door. 
'  Good-bye' she said, after he had closed it. 
XXXVII 
It was half j)ast five when Mitchy came in ; and Nan- 
da's relapse had in the mean time known no arrest but 
the arrival of tea, which, however, she had left untouch- 
ed. He expressed, on entering, the fear that ho failed 
of exactitude, to which she replied by the assurance that 
he was, on the contrary, remarkably near it, and by the 
mention of all the aid to patience she had drawn from the 
pleasure of half an hour with Mr. Van — an allusion that 
of course immediately provoked on Mitchy's part the 
liveliest interest. "He has turned up at last then? 
How tremendously exciting ! And your mother ?" he 
went on ; after which, as she said nothing : "Did she see 
him, I mean, and is he, perhaps, with her now ?" 
" No ; she won't have come in — unless you asked." 
" I didn't ask. I asked only for you." 
Nanda thought an instant. "But you will still some- 
times come to see her, won't you ? I mean you won't 
ever give her up ?" 
Mitchy, at this, laughed out. "My dear child, you're 
an adorable family !" 
She took it placidly enough. " That's what Mr. Van 
said. He said I'm trying to make a career for her." 
"Did he ?" Her visitor, though without prejudice to 
his amusement, appeared struck. " You must have got 
in with him rather deep." 
  
  
She again considered. "Well, I think I did rather. 
He was awfully beautiful and kind." 
" Oh," Mitchy concurred, " trust him always for that !" 
"He wrote me, on my note,"Nanda pursued, "a tre- 
mendously good answer." 
Mitchy was struck afresh. " Your note ? What note ?" 
"To ask him to come. I wrote at the beginning of 
the week." 
" Oh — I see," Mitchy observed as if this were rather 
different. "He couldn't then of course have done less 
than come." 
Yet his companion again thought. " I don't know." 
" Oh come — I say : you do know," Mitchy laughed. 
"I should like to see him — or you either !" There would 
have been for a continuous spectator of these episodes 
an odd resemblance between the manner and all the 
movements that had followed his entrance and those that 
had accompanied the installation of his predecessor. He 
laid his hat, as Vanderbank had done, in three places in 
succession, and appeared to have very much the same 
various views about the security of his stick and the re- 
tention in his hand of his gloves. He postponed the 
final selection of a seat, and he looked at the objects 
about him while he spoke of other matters. Quite in the 
same fashion indeed at last these objects impressed him. 
"How charming you've made your room, and what a lot 
of nice things you've got !" 
" That's just what Mr. Van said too. He seemed i 
mensely struck." 
But Mitchy hereupon, once more, had a drop to e 
travagance. " Can I do nothing then but repeat him 
I came, you know, to be original." 
" It would be original for you," Nanda promptly r 
turned, "to be at all like him. But you luonH" she we 
back, "not sometimes come for mother only? You' 
have plenty of chances." 
This he took np with more gravity. "What do you 
mean by chances ? That you're going away ? That will 
add to the attraction !" he exclaimed as she kept silence. 
"I shall have to wait' she answered at last, "to tell 
you definitely what I'm to do. It's all in the air — yet I 
think I shall know to-day. I'm to see Mr. Longdon." 
Mitchy wondered. " To-day ?" 
"He's coming at half past six." 
" And then you'll know ?" 
"Well- he will." 
"Mr. Longdon?" 
"I meant Mr. Longdon," she said after a moment. 
Mitchy had his watch out. " Then shall I interfere ?" 
" There are quantities of time. You must have your 
tea. You see at any rate," the girl continued, " what I 
mean by your chances." 
She had made him his tea, which he had taken. "You 
do squeeze us in !" 
"Well, it's an accident your coming together — except 
of course that you're not together. I simply took the 
time that you each independently proposed. But it 
would have been all right even if you had met. That is, 
I mean," she explained, "even if you and Mr. Longdon 
do. Mr. Van, I confess, I did want alone." 
Mitchy had been glaring at her over his tea. "You're 
more and more remarkable !" 
" Well then, if I improve so, give me your promise." 
Mitchy, as he partook of refreshment, kept up his 
thoughtful gaze. "I shall presently want some more, 
please. But do you mind my asking if Van knew — " 
" That Mr. Longdon's to come ? Oh yes, I told him, 
and he left with me a message for him." 
" A message ? How awfully interesting !" 
Nanda thought. " It will be, awfully — to Mr. Long- 
don." 
" Some more now, please," said Mitchy while she took 
his cnp.  ' And to Mr. Longdon only, eh ? Is that a way 
of saying that it's none of my business ?" 
The fact of her attending — and with a happy show of 
particular care — to his immediate material want added 
somehow, as she replied, to her effect of sincerity.    Ah, 
Mr. Mitchy, the business of mine that has not by this 
time, ever so naturally, become a business of yours — well, 
I can't think of any just now, and I wouldn't, you kno 
if I could !" 
" I can promise you then that there's none of mine," 
Mitchy declared, " that hasn't made, by the same token, 
quite the same shift. Keep it well before you, please, 
that if ever a young woman had a grave lookout — " 
" What do you mean," she interrupted, " by a grave 
lookout ?" 
" Well, the certainty of finding herself saddled for all 
time to come with the affairs of a gentleman whom she 
can never get rid of on the specious plea that he's only 
her husband or her lover or her father or her son or her 
brother or her uncle or her cousin. There, as none of 
these characters, he just stands." 
''Yes,"Nanda kindly mused, "he's simply her Mitchy." 
" Precisely. And a Mitchy, you see, is — what do you 
call it ? — simply indissoluble. He's moreover inordinate- 
ly inquisitive. He goes to the length of wondering wheth- 
er Van also learned that you were expecting me. ' 
 '' Oh yes — I told him everything." 
Mitchy smiled. " Everything ?" 
"I told him — I told him," she replied with impa- 
tience. 
Mitchy hesitated. ''And did he then leave me also a 
message ?" 
''No, nothing. What I'm to do for him with Mr. 
Longdon," she immediately explained, " is to make prac- 
tically a kind of apology." 
" Ah, and for me" — Mitchy quickly took it up — " there 
 
can be no question of anything of that kind. I see. He 
has done me no wrong." 
Nanda, with her eyes now on the window, turned it 
over. " I don't much think he would know even if I 
had." 
 ' I see, I see. And we wouldn't tell him." 
She turned with some abruptness from the outer view. 
" We wouldn't tell him. But he was beautiful all round," 
she went on. '' No one could have been nicer about hav- 
ing for so long, for instance, come so little to the house. 
As if he hadn't only too many other things to do ! He 
didn't even make them out nearly the hinderances he 
might. But fancy, with his important duties — all the 
great affairs on his hands — our making vulgar little rows 
about being 'neglected'! He actually made so little of 
what he might easily plead — speaking so, I mean, as if he 
were all in the wrong — that one had almost, positively, 
to sJioiu him his excuses. As if" — she really kept it up — 
"he hasn't plenty !" 
"It's only people like me," Mitchy threw out, "who 
have none ?" 
" Yes — people like you. People of no use, of no occu- 
pation and no importance. Like you, you know," she 
pursued, "there are so many." Then it was with no 
transition of tone that she added: "If you're bad, 
Mitchy, I won't tell you anything." 
"And if I'm good what will you tell me? What I 
want really most to knoiu is why he should be, as you 
said just now, 'apologetic ' to Mr. Longdon. What's the 
wrong he allows he has done Mm?" 
" Oh, he has 'neglected' him — if that's any comfort to 
us — quite as much." 
" Hasn't looked him up, and that sort of thing ?" 
"Yes — and ho mentioned some other matter." 
Mitchy wondered. " Mentioned it ?" 
"In which," said Nanda, "he hasn't pleased him." 
  
Mitchy, after an instant, risked it. "But what other' 
matter ?" 
"Oh, he says that when I speak to him, Mr. Longdon 
will know." 
Mitchy gravely took this in. "And shall you speak to  
him ?
"For Mr. Van?" How, she seemed to ask, could hej 
doubt it ? " Why, the very first thing." 
"And then will Mr. Longdon tell you ?" 
" What Mr. Van means ?" Nanda thought. " Well— 
I hope not." 
Mitchy followed it up. " You ' hope '— ?" 
"Why, if it's anything that could possibly make anyl 
one like him any less. I mean I shaVt in that case in 
the least want to hear it." 
Mitchy looked as if he could understand that and yetj 
could also imagine something of a conflict. "But if 
Mr. Longdon insists — ?" 
"On making me know? I shaVt let him insist. 
Would you ?" she put to him. 
" Oh, I'm not in question !" 
" Yes, you are !" she quite rang out. 
"Ah — !" Mitchy laughed. After which he added: 
"Well then, I might overbear you." 
"No, you mightn't," she as positively declared again, 
"and you wouldn't at any rate desire to." 
This he finally showed he could take from her — showed 
it in the silence in which, for a minute, their eyes met ; 
then showed it perhaps even more in his deep exclama-
tion : "You're complete !" 
For such a proposition as well she had the same de-
tached sense. " I don't think I am in anything but the 
wish to keep yoit so." 
"Well — keep me, keep me! It strikes me that I'm 
not at all now on a footing, you know, of keeping my- 
self. I quite give you notice in fact," Mitchy went on, 
 
 ' that I'm going to come to you henceforth for every- 
thing. But you're too wonderful," he wound up as she at 
first said nothing to this. '' I don't even frighten you." 
"Yes — fortunately for you." 
"Ah, but I distinctly warn you that I mean to do my 
very best for it !" 
Nanda viewed it all with as near an approach to gaiety 
as she often achieved. " Well, if you should ever suc- 
ceed it would be a dark day for you." 
"You bristle with your own guns," he pursued, "but 
the ingenuity of a lifetime shall be devoted to taking you 
on some quarter on which you're not prepared." 
" And what quarter, pray, will that be ?" 
" Ah, I'm not such a fool as to begin by giving you a 
cue !" Mitchy, on this, turned off with an ambiguous but 
unmistakably natural sigh ; he looked at photographs, 
he took up a book or two, as Vanderbank had done, and 
for a couple of minutes there was silence between them. 
"What does stretch before me," he resumed after an in- 
terval during which, clearly, in spite of his movements, 
he had looked at nothing — " what does stretch before me 
is the happy prospect of my feeling that I have found in 
you a friend with whom, so utterly and unreservedly, I 
can always go to the bottom of things. This luxury, you 
see, now, of our freedom to look facts in the face is one 
of which, I promise you, I mean fully to avail myself." 
He stopped before her again, and again she was silent. 
" It's so awfully jolly, isn't it ? that there's not at last a 
single thing that we can't take our ease about. I mean 
that we can't intelligibly name and comfortably chal- 
lenge. We've worked through the long tunnel of arti- 
ficial reserves and superstitious mysteries, and I at least 
shall have only to feel that in showing every confidence 
and dotting every 'i' I follow the example you so ad- 
mirably set. You go down to the roots ? Good. It's 
all I ask I" 
  
He had dropped into a chair as he talked, and so long 
as she remained in her own they were confronted ; but 
she presently got up and, the next moment, while he 
kept his place, was busy restoring order to the objects 
that both her visitors had disarranged. " If you weren t 
delightful you'd be dreadful V 
''There we are! I could easily, in other words, 
frighten you if I would." 
She took no notice of the remark, only, after a few 
more scattered touches, producing an observation of her 
own. "He's going, all the same, Mr. Van, to be charm- 
ing to mother. We've settled that.'' 
 '' Ah, then he can make time — ?" 
She hesitated. "Eor as much as tJiat — yes. For as 
much, I mean, as may sufficiently show her that he has 
not given up. So don't you recognize how much more 
time yoic can make ?" 
''Ah — see precisely — there we are again!" Mitchyj 
promptly ejaculated. 
Yet he had gone, it seemed, further than she followed. 
" But where— ?" 
 ''Why, as I say, at the roots and in the depths of 
things." 
" Oh !" She dropped to an indifference that was but 
part of her general patience for all his irony. 
'' It's needless to go into the question of not giving 
your mother up. One simply doesn't give her up. One 
can't. There she is.'' 
" That's exactly what he says. There she is." 
" Ah, but I don't want to say nothing but what ' he ' 
says !" Mitchy laughed. '' lie can't at all events have 
mentioned to you any such link as the one that in my 
case is now almost the most sensible. I've got a wife, 
you know." 
"Oh, Mitchy !" the girl protestingly, though vaguely, 
murmured. 
 
" And my wife — did you know it ?" Mitcliy went on, 
 'is positively getting thick with your mother. Of course 
it isn't new to you that she's wonderful for wives. Now 
that our marriage is an accomplished fact she takes the 
i reatest interest in it — or bids fair to, if her attention 
can only be thoroughly secured — and more particularly 
in what, I believe, is generally called our peculiar situa- 
tion : for it appears, you know, that we're, in the most 
conspicuous manner possible, in a peculiar situation. 
Aggie is therefore already, and is likely to be still more, 
in what's universally recognized as your mother's regular 
line. Your mother will attract her, study her, finally 
' understand ' her. In fact, she'll help her, as she has 
helped so many before, and will help so many still to 
come. With Aggie thus as a satellite and a frequenter 
— in a degree in which she never yet has been," he con- 
tinued, " what will the whole thing be but a practical 
multiplication of our points of contact ? You may re- 
mind me of Mrs. Brook's contention that if she did in 
her time keep something of a saloon, the saloon is now, 
in consequence of events, but a collection of fortuitous 
atoms ; but that, my dear Nanda, will become, none the 
less, to your clearer sense, but a pious echo of her mo- 
mentary modesty or — call it at the worst — her momen- 
tary despair. The generations will come and go, and 
the personnel, as the newspapers say, of the saloon will 
shift and change, but the institution itself, as resting on 
a deep human need, has a long course yet to run and a 
good work yet to do. We sha'n't last, but your mother 
will, and as Aggie is happily very young she's therefore 
provided for, in the time to come, on a scale sufficiently 
considerable to leave us just now at peace. Meanwhile, 
as you're almost as good for husbands as Mrs. Brook is 
for wives, why aren't we, as a couple, we Mitchys, quite 
ideally arranged for, and why mayn't I speak to you of 
my future as sufficiently guaranteed ? The onlj appre- 
  
ciable shadow I make out comes  for me, from the! 
question of what may to-day be between you and Mr. 
Longdon. Do I understand' Mitchy asked,  ''that he' 
presently to arrive for an answer to something he hasj 
put to you ?" 
Nanda looked at him a while with a sort of solemnity 
of tenderness, and her voice, when she at last spoke  
trembled with a feeling that clearly had grown in hei 
as she listened to the string of whimsicalities, bitter and
sweet, that he had just unrolled. " You're wild," sh( 
said simply —  ' you're wild." 
He wonderfully glared. " Am I then already frighten- 
ing you ?" He shook his head rather sadly. '' I'm not
in the least trying yet. There's something," he addedi 
after an instant,  'Hhat I do want too awfully to ask you.  
" Well, theu — !" If she had not eagerness she had atl 
least charity. 
"Oh, but you see I reflect that though you show all 
the courage to go to the roots and depths with mey I'm 
not — I never have been — fully conscious of the nerve for 
doing as much with you. It's a question," Mitchy ex- 
plained, "of how much — of a particular matter — you 
know." 
She continued ever so kindly to face him. " Hasn't it 
come out all round now that I know everything ?" 
Her reply, in this form, took a minute or two to oper- 
ate, but when it began to do so it fairly diffused a light. 
Mitchy's face turned of a color that might have been pro- 
duced by her holding close to it some lantern wonderfully 
glazed. " You know, you know !" he then rang out. 
"Of course I know." 
"You know, you know !" Mitchy repeated. 
"Everything," she imperturbably went on, "but what 
you're talking about." 
He was silent a little, with his eyes on her. " May I 
kiss your hand ?" 
 
" 'No," she answered : '  that's what I call wild." 
He had risen with his inquiry, and after her reply he 
remained a moment on the spot.  ' See — Fve frightened 
you. It proves as easy as that. But I only wanted to 
show you and to be sure for myself. Now that Tve the 
mental certitude I shall never wish otherwise to use it." 
He turned away to begin again one of his absorbed revo- 
lutions.  ''Mr. Longdon has asked you this time for a 
grand public adhesion, and what he turns up for now is 
to receive your ultimatum ? A final, irrevocable flight 
with him is the line he advises, and hell be ready for it 
on the spot with the post-chaise and the pistols ?" 
The image appeared really to have for Nanda a certain 
vividness, and she looked at it a space without a hint of 
a smile. "We sha'n't need any pistols, whatever may be 
decided about the post-chaise ; and any flight we may un- 
dertake together will need no cover of secrecy or night. 
Mother, as IVe told you — " 
" Won't fling herself across your reckless path ? I re- 
member," said Mitchy — "you alluded to her magnificent 
resignation. But father ?" he oddly inquired. 
Nanda thought for this a moment longer. "Well, Mr. 
Longdon has — off in the country — a good deal of shoot- 
ing." 
" So that Edward can sometimes come down with his 
old gun ? Good then too — if it isn't, as he takes you by 
the way, to shoot yoic. You've got it all shipshape and 
arranged, in other words, and have only, if the fancy does 
move you, to clear out. You clear out — you make all 
sorts of room. It is interesting," Mitchy exclaimed, "ar- 
riving thus with you at the depths ! I look all round and 
see every one squared and every one but one or two 
suited. Why then reflection and delay?" 
"You don't, dear Mr. Mitchy," Nanda took her time to 
return, "know nearly as much as you think." 
" But isn't my question absolutely a confession of 
  
