"Anything doing with the trout?"
"Not much; two in the falls pool that come an ounce short of the pound.
I should be glad to divide--if you are shy on trout."
Again they regarded one another carefully.
"My name," said the man by the fire, "is Jones--but that can't be helped
now. So if you'll overlook such matters I'll be glad of a trout if you
can spare one."
"My name is Ellis; help yourself."
The man by the fire glanced at the burnt flapjack, scraped it free from
the pan, tossed it into the bushes, and straightened to his full height.
"Come into camp, Mr. Ellis," he said, politely. The freemasonry of caste
operates very quickly in the wilderness; Ellis slid down the boulder on
the re-enforced seat of his knickerbockers, landing, with hob-nailed
shoes foremost, almost at the edge of the fire. Then he laid his rod
aside, slipped the pack to the ground, unslung his creel, and, fishing
out a handkerchief, mopped his sunburnt countenance.
"Anything else you're short of, Mr. Jones?" he asked, pleasantly. "I'm
just in from the settlements, and I can let you have a pinch of almost
anything."
"Have you plenty of salt?" inquired Jones, wistfully.
"Plenty; isn't there anything else? Bacon? Sugar?"
"Matches?"
Ellis looked at him keenly; good woodsmen don't run short of matches;
good woodsmen don't build such fires.
"Certainly," he said. "Did you have an accident?"
"No--that is, several boxes got wet, and I've been obliged to sit around
this confounded fire for fear it might go out--didn't dare fish very far
from it."
He looked gloomily around, rubbed his forehead as though trying to
recollect something, and finally sat down on a log.
"Fact is," he said, "I don't know very much about the woods. Do you?
Everything's gone wrong; I tore my canoe in the Ledge Rapids yesterday.
I'm in a fix."
Ellis laughed; and his laugh was so pleasant, so entirely without
offence, that young Jones laughed, too, for a while, then checked
himself to adjust his eyeglasses, which his mirth had displaced.
"Can you cook?" he asked, so seriously that Ellis only nodded, still
laughing.
"Then, for Heaven's love, would you, when you cook your own breakfast
over that fire, cook enough for two?"
"Why, man, I believe you're hungry," said Ellis, sharply.
"Hungry? Well, I don't know whether you would call it exactly hunger,
because I have eaten several things which I cooked. I ought not to be
hungry; I tried to toss a flapjack, but it got stuck to the pan. Fact
is, I'm a rotten cook, and I guess it's simply that I'm half starved for
a decent meal."
"Why, see here," said Ellis, rising to his feet, "I can fix up something
pretty quick if you like."
"I do like. Yonder is my cornmeal, coffee, some damp sugar, flour, and
what's left of the pork. You see I left it in a corner of the lean-to,
and while I was asleep a porcupine got busy with it; then I hung it on a
tree, and some more porcupines invited their relatives, and they all
climbed up and nearly finished it. Did you suppose that a porcupine
could climb a tree?"
"I've heard so," said Ellis, gravely, busy with the stores which he was
unrolling from his own blanket. The guilelessness of this stray brother
appalled him. Here was a babe in the woods. A new sort of babe, too,
for, in the experience of Ellis, the incompetent woodsman is ever the
loudest-mouthed, the tyro, the most conceited. But this forest-squatting
innocent not only knew nothing of the elements of woodcraft, but had
called a stranger's attention to his ignorance with a simplicity that
silenced mirth, forestalled contempt, and aroused a curious respect for
the unfortunate.
"He is no liar, anyway," thought Ellis, placing a back-log, mending the
fire, emptying the coffee pot, and settling the kettle to boil. And
while he went about culinary matters with a method born of habit, Jones
watched him, aided when he saw a chance; and they chatted on most
animatedly together as the preparations for breakfast advanced.
"The very first day I arrived in the woods," said Jones, "I fell into
the stream and got most of my matches wet. I've had a devil of a time
since."
"It's a good idea to keep reserve matches in a water-tight glass
bottle," observed Ellis, carelessly, and without appearing to instruct
anybody about anything.
"I'll remember that. What is a good way to keep pork from porcupines?"
Ellis mentioned several popular methods, stirred the batter, shoved a
hot plate nearer the ashes, and presently began the manufacture of
flapjacks.
"Don't you toss 'em?" inquired Jones, watching the process intently.
"Oh, they can be tossed--like this! But it is easier for me to turn them
with a knife--like this. I have an idea that they toss flapjacks less
often in the woods than they do in fiction."
"I gathered my idea from a book," said Jones, bitterly; "it told how to
build a fire without matches. Some day I shall destroy the author."
Presently Jones remarked in a low, intense voice: "Oh, the fragrance of
that coffee and bacon!" which was all he said, but its significance was
pathetically unmistakable.
"Pitch in, man," urged Ellis, looking back over his shoulder. "I'll be
with you in a second." But when his tower of browned and smoking
flapjacks was ready, and he came over to the log, he found that his
host, being his host, had waited. That settled his convictions
concerning Jones; and that was doubtless why, inside of half an hour, he
found himself calling him Jones and not Mr. Jones, and Jones calling him
Ellis. They were a pair of well knit, clean-limbed young men, throat and
face burnt deeply by wind and sun. Jones did not have much hair; Ellis's
was thick and short, and wavy at the temples. They were agreeable to
look at.
"Have another batch of flapjacks?" inquired Ellis, persuasively.
Jones groaned with satisfaction at the prospect, and applied himself to
a crisp trout garnished with bacon.
"I've tried and tried," he said, "but I cannot catch any trout. When I
found that I could not I was horrified, Ellis, because, you see, I had
supposed that the forest and stream were going to furnish me with
subsistence. Nature hasn't done a thing to me since I've tried to shake
hands with her."
"I wonder," said Ellis, "why you came into the woods alone?"
Jones coyly pounced upon another flapjack, folded it neatly and inserted
one end of it into his mouth. This he chewed reflectively; and when it
had vanished according to Fletcher, he said:
"If I tell you why I came here I'll begin to get angry. This breakfast
is too heavenly to spoil. Pass the bacon and help yourself."
Ellis, however, had already satisfied his hunger. He set the kettle on
the coals again, dumped into it cup and plate and fork, wiped his
sheath-knife carefully, and, curling up at the foot of a hemlock,
lighted his pipe, returning the flaming branch to the back-log.
Jones munched on; smile after smile spread placidly over his youthful
face, dislodging his eyeglasses every time. He resumed them, and ate
flapjacks.
"The first time my canoe upset," he said, "I lost my book of artificial
flies. I brought a box of angle-worms with me, too, but they fell into
the stream the second time I upset. So I have been trying to snare one
of those big trout under the ledge below----"
Ellis's horrified glance cut him short; he shrugged his shoulders.
"My friend, I know it's dead low-down, but it was a matter of pure
hunger with me. At all events, it's just as well that I caught nothing;
I couldn't have cooked it if I had."
He sighed at the last flapjack, decided he did not require it, and
settling down with his back against the log blissfully lighted his pipe.
For ten minutes they smoked without speaking, dreamily gazing at the
blue sky through the trees. Friendly little forest birds came around,
dropping from twig to branch; two chipmunks crept into the case of eggs
to fill their pouched chops with the oats that the eggs were packed in.
The young men watched them lazily.
"The simpler life is the true existence," commented Ellis, drawing a
long, deep breath.
"What the devil is the simpler life?" demanded Jones, with so much
energy that the chipmunks raced away in mad abandon, and the flock of
black-capped birds scattered to neigbouring branches, remarking in
unison, "Chick-a-dee-dee-dee."
"Why, you're leading the simpler life now," said Ellis, laughing, "are
you not?"
"Am I? No, I'm not. I'm not leading a simple life; I'm leading a
pace-killing, nerve-racking, complex one. I tell you, Ellis, that it has
taken just one week in the woods to reveal to me the complexity of
simplicity!"
"Oh, you don't like the life?"
"I like it all right, but it's too complex. Listen to me. You asked me
why anybody ever let me escape into the woods. I'll tell you.... You're
a New Yorker, are you not?"
Ellis nodded.
"All right. First look on this picture: I live in the Sixties, near
enough to the Park to see it. It's green, and I like it. Besides, there
are geraniums and other posies in my back yard, and I can see them when
the laundress isn't too busy with the clothes-line. So much for the
mise en scène; me in a twenty-by-one-hundred house, perfectly
contented; Park a stone's toss west, back yard a few feet north. My
habits? Simple enough to draw tears from a lambkin! I breakfast at
nine--an egg, fruit, coffee and--I hate to admit it--the Sun. At
eleven I go down-town to see if there's anything doing. There never is,
so I smoke one cigar with my partner and then we lunch together. I then
walk uptown--walk, mind you. At the club I look at the ticker, or out
of the window. Later I play cowboy or billiards for an hour. I take one
cocktail--one, if you please. I converse." He waved his pipe; Ellis
nodded solemnly.
"Then," continued Jones, "what do I do?"
"I don't know," replied Ellis.
"I'll tell you. I call a cab--one taxi, or one hansom, as the state of
the weather may suggest--I drive through the Park, pleasantly aware of
the verdure, the squirrels, and the babies; I arrive at my home; I mount
to the library and there I select from my limited collection some
accursed book I've always heard of but have never read--not fiction, but
something stupefying and worth while. This I read for exactly one hour.
I then need a drink. I then dress; and if I'm dining out, out I go--if
not, I dine at home. Twice a week I attend the theatre, but I neutralise
that by doing penance at the opera every Monday during the season....
There, Ellis, is the story of a simple life! Look on that picture. Now
look on this: Me in the backwoods, fly-bitten, smoke-choked, a
half-charred flapjack in my fist, a porcupine-gnawed rind of pork on a
stick, attempting to broil the same at a fire, the smoke of which blinds
me. Me, again, belly down, peering hungrily over the bank of a stream,
attempting to snatch a trout with a bare hook, my glasses slipping off
repeatedly, the spectre of starvation scourging on me. Me, once more,
frantic with indigestion and mosquitoes, lurking under a blanket, the
root of a tree bruising my backbone; me in the morning, done up, shaving
in icy water and cutting my chin; me, half shaved, searching for a scrap
of nourishment, gauntly prowling among cold and greasy fry-pans! Ellis!
Which is the simpler life, in Heaven's name?"
Ellis's laughter was the laughter of a woodsman, full, infectious, but
almost noiseless. The birds came back and teetered on adjacent twigs,
cheeping in friendly unison; a chipmunk, chops distended, popped up from
the case of eggs like a striped jack-in-a-box, not at all afraid of a
man who laughed that way.
"How did you ever come into the woods?" he asked at length.
"Lunatic friends and fool books persuaded me I was missing something. I
read all about how to tell a woodcock from a peacock; how to dig holes
in the ground and raise little pea vines, and how to make two blades of
grass grow where the laundress had set a devastating shoe. Then I tired
of it. But friends urged me on, and one idiot said that I looked like
the victim of a rare disease and gave me a shotgun--whether to shoot
myself or the dicky birds I'm not perfectly certain yet. Besides, as I
have a perfect hatred of taking life, I had no temptation to shoot
guides in Maine or niggers in South Carolina, where the quail come from.
Still, I was awake to the new idea. I read more books on bats and
woodchucks; I smelled every flower I saw; I tried to keep up," he said,
earnestly; "by Heaven, I did my best! And now, look at me! Nature hands
me the frozen mitt!"
Ellis could only laugh, cradling his knees in his clasped and sun-tanned
hands.
"I am fond of Nature; I admire the geraniums in my backyard," continued
Jones, excitedly. "I like a simple life, too; but I don't wish to pursue
a live thing and eat it for my dinner. The idea is perfectly obnoxious
to me. I like flowers on a table or in the Park, but I don't want to
know their names, or the names of the creatures that buzz and crawl over
them, or the names of the birds that feed on the buzzy things! I don't;
I know I don't, and I won't! Nature has strung me; I shall knock Nature
hereafter. This is all for mine. I'll lock up and leave the key of the
fields to the next Come-on lured into the good green goods by that most
accomplished steerer, Mrs. Nature. I've got my gilt brick, Ellis--I'm
going home to buy a card to hang over my desk; and on it will be the
wisest words ever written:
  "'Who's Loony Now?'"
"But, my dear fellow----"
"No, you don't. You're an accomplice of this Nature dame; I can tell by
the way you cook and catch trout and keep your matches in bottles. One
large and brilliant brick is enough for one New York man. The asphalt
for mine--and a Turkish bath."
After a grinning silence, Ellis arose, stretched, tapped his pipe
against a tree trunk, and sauntered over to where his rod lay. "Come on;
I'll guarantee you a trout in the first reach," he said, affably,
slipping ferrule into socket, disentangling the cast and setting the
line free.
So they strolled off toward the long amber reach which lay a few yards
below the camp, Jones explaining that he didn't wish to take life from
anything except a mosquito.
"We've got to eat; we'd better stock up while we can, because it's going
to rain," observed Ellis.
"Going to rain? How do you know?"
"I smell it. Besides, look there--yonder above the mountains. Do you see
the sky behind the Golden Dome?"
[Illustration]
CHAPTER XIV
A STATE OF MIND
Up the narrow valley, over the unbroken sweep of treetops, arose tumbled
peaks; and above the Golden Dome, pushing straight upward into the
flawless blue of heaven, towered a cloud, its inky convolutions edged
with silver.
Jones inspected the thunderhead with disapproval; Ellis offered his rod,
and, being refused, began some clever casting, the artistic beauty of
which was lost upon Jones.
One trout only investigated the red-and-white fly; and, that fish safely
creeled, Ellis turned to his companion:
"Three years ago, when I last came here, this reach was more prolific.
But there's a pool above that I'll warrant. Shall we move?"
As they passed on upstream Jones said: "There's no pool above, only a
rapid."
"You're in error," said Ellis, confidently. "I've known every pool on
the Caranay for years."
"But there is no pool above--unless you mean to trespass."
"Trespass!" repeated Ellis, aghast. "Trespass in the free Caranay
forests! You--you don't mean to say that any preserve has been
established on the Caranay! I haven't been here for three years.... Do
you?"
"Look there," said Jones, pointing to a high fence of netted wire which
rose above the undergrowth and cut the banks of the stream in two with a
barrier eight feet high; "that's what stopped me. There's their
home-designed trespass notice hanging to the fence. Read it; it's worth
perusal."
Speechless, but still incredulous, Ellis strode to the barrier and
looked up. And this is what he read printed in mincing "Art Nouveau"
type upon a swinging zinc sign fashioned to imitate something or other
which was no doubt very precious:
     OYEZ!
      Ye simple livers of ye simpler life have raised thys barrier
      against ye World, ye Flesh and ye Devyl. Turn back in Peace and
      leave us to our Nunnery.
  YE MAIDS AND DAMES OF VASSAR.
"What the devil is that nonsense?" demanded Ellis hoarsely.
"Explained on our next tree," remarked Jones, wiping his eyeglasses
indifferently.
An ordinary trespass notice printed on white linen was nailed to the
flank of a great pine; and, below this, a special warning, done in red
on a white board:
     NOTICE!
      This property belongs to the Vassar College Summer School.
      Fishing, shooting, trapping, the felling of trees, the picking of
      wild flowers, and every form of trespass, being strictly
      forbidden, all violators of this ordinance under the law will be
      prosecuted. One hundred dollars reward is offered for evidence
      leading to the detection and conviction of any trespasser upon
      this property.
  THE DIRECTORS OF THE VASSAR SUMMER SCHOOL.
"Well?" inquired Jones, as Ellis stood motionless, staring at the sign.
The latter slowly turned an enraged visage toward his companion.
"What are you going to do?" repeated Jones, curiously.
"Do? I'm going to fish the Caranay. Come on."
"Trespass on Vassar?" asked Jones.
"I'm going to fish the Caranay, my old and favorite and beloved
stream," retorted Ellis, doggedly. "Do you suppose a dinky zinc
sign in this forest can stop me? Come on, Jones. I'll show you a
trout worth tossing this Caranay Belle to." And he looped on a
silver-and-salmon-tinted fly and waded out into the rapids.
Jones lighted his pipe and followed him, giving his views of several
matters in a voice pitched above the whispering rush of the ripples:
"That's all very well, Ellis, but suppose we are pinched and fined? A
nice place, these forests, for a simple liver to lead a simple life in!
Simple life! What? And some of these writers define the 'simple life' as
merely a 'state of mind.' That's right, too; I was in a state of mind
until I met you, let me tell you! They're perfectly correct; it is a
state of mind."
He muttered to himself, casting an anxious eye on the thundercloud which
stretched almost to the zenith over the Golden Dome and shadowed Lynx
Peak like a pall.
"Rain, too," he commented, wading in Ellis's wake. "There's a most
devilish look about that cloud. I wish I were a woodchuck--or a shiner,
or an earnest young thing from Vassar. What are we to do if pinched with
the goods on us, Ellis?"
The other laughed a disagreeable laugh and splashed forward.
"Because," continued Jones, wiping the spray from his glasses, "the
woods yonder may be teeming with these same young things from Vassar.
Old 'uns, too--there's a faculty for that Summer School. You can never
tell what a member of a ladies' Summer School faculty would do to you. I
dare say they might run after you and frisk you for a kiss--out here in
the backwoods."
"Do you know anything about this absurd Summer School?" asked Ellis,
halting to wait for his companion.
"Only what the newspapers print."
"And what's that? I've not noticed anything about it."
"Why, they all tell about the scope of the Vassar Summer School. It's
founded"--and he grinned maliciously--"on the simple life."
"How?" snapped Ellis, clambering up out of the water to the flat, sandy
shore of an exquisite pool some forty rods in length.
"Why, this way: The Vassar undergraduates, who formerly, after
commencement, scattered into all the complexities of a silly,
unprofitable, good old summer time, now have a chance to acquire
simplicity and a taste for the rudimentary pleasures and pursuits they
have overlooked in their twentieth-century gallop after the complex."
Ellis sullenly freed his line and glanced up at the clouds. It was
already raining on the Golden Dome.
"So," continued Jones, "the Summer School took to the woods along with
the rest of the simple-minded. I hear they have a library; doubtless it
contains the Outlook and the Rollo books. They have courses in the
earlier and simpler languages--the dead 'uns--Sanskrit, Greek, Latin;
English, too, before it grew pin-feathers. They have a grand-stand built
of logs out yonder where the mosquito hummeth; and some trees and a pond
which they call a theatre devoted to the portrayal of the great
primitive and simple passions and emotions. They have also dammed up the
stream to make a real lake when they give tank-dramas like Lohengrin and
the Rheingold; and the papers say they have a pair of live swans hitched
to a boat--that is, a yellow reporter swears they have, but he was
discovered taking snapshots at some Rhine-wine daughters, and hustled
out of the woods----"
He paused to watch Ellis hook and play and presently land a splendid
trout weighing close to two pounds.
"It's an outrage, an infernal outrage, for such people to dam the
Caranay and invade this God-given forest with their unspeakable tin
signs!" said Ellis, casting again.
"But they're only looking for a simpler life--just like you."
Ellis said something.
"That," replied Jones, "is a simple and ancient word expressing tersely
one of the simplest and most primitive passions. You know, the simple
life is merely a "state of mind"; you're acquiring it; I recognize the
symptoms."
Ellis made another observation, more or less mandatory.
"Yes, that is a locality purely mythical, according to our later
exponents of theology; therefore I cannot accept the suggestion to go
there----"
"Confound it!" exclaimed Ellis, laughing, as he landed a trout, "let up
on your joking. I'm mad all through, and it's beginning to rain. When
that thunder comes nearer it will end the fishing, too. Look at Lynx
Peak! Did you see that play of lightning? There's a corker of a storm
brewing. I hope," he added, savagely, "it will carry away their
confounded dam and their ridiculous lake. The nerve of women to dam a
trout stream like the Caranay.... What was that you said?"
"I said," hissed Jones in a weird whisper, "that there are two girls
standing behind us and taking our pictures with a kodak! Don't look
around, man! They'll snap-shoot us for evidence!"
But the caution was too late; Ellis had turned. There came a click of a
kodak shutter; Jones turned in spite of himself; another click sounded.
"Stang!" breathed Jones as two young girls stepped from the shelter of a
juniper brush and calmly confronted the astonished trespassers.
"I am very sorry to trouble you," said the taller one severely, "but
this is private property."
Ellis took off his cap; Jones did the same.
"I saw your signs," said Ellis, pleasantly. Jones whispered to him: "The
taller one is a corker!" and Ellis replied under his breath: "The other
is attractive, too."
"You admit that you deliberately trespassed?" inquired the shorter girl
very gravely.
"Not upon you--only upon what you call your property," said Ellis,
gaily. "You see, we really need the trout in our business--which is to
keep soul and body on friendly terms."
No answering smile touched the pretty grey eyes fixed on his. She said
gravely: "I am very sorry that this has happened."
"We're sorry, too," smiled Jones, "although we can scarcely regret the
charming accident which permits us----"
But it wouldn't do; the taller girl stared at him coldly from a pair of
ornamental brown eyes.
Presently she said: "We students are supposed to report cases like this.
If you have deliberately chosen to test the law governing the protection
of private property no doubt our Summer School authorities will be
willing to gratify you before a proper tribunal.... May I ask your
names?" She drew a notebook from the pocket of her kilted skirt,
standing gracefully with pencil poised, dark eyes focused upon Jones.
And, as she waited, the thunder boomed behind the Golden Dome.
"It's going to rain cats and dogs," said Jones, anxiously "and you
haven't an umbrella----"
The dark-eyed girl gazed at him scornfully. "Do you refuse your name?"
"No--oh, not at all!" said Jones hastily; "my name is Jones----"
The scorn deepened. "And--is this Mr. Smith?" she inquired, looking at
Ellis.
"My name is Jones," said Jones so earnestly that his glasses fell off.
"And what's worse, it's John Jones."
Something in his eye engaged her attention--perhaps the unwinking
innocence of it. She wrote "John Jones" on her pad, noted his town
address, and turned to Ellis, who was looking fixedly, but not
offensively, at the girl with the expressive grey eyes.
"If you have a pad I'll surrender to you," he said, amiably. "There is
glory enough for all here, as our admiral once remarked."
The grey eyes glimmered; a quiver touched the scarlet mouth. But a crash
of nearer thunder whitened the smile on her lips.
"Helen, I'm going!" she said hastily to her of the brown eyes.
"That storm," said Ellis calmly, "has a long way to travel before it
strikes the Caranay valley." He pointed with his rod, tracing in the sky
the route of the crowding clouds. "Every storm that hatches behind the
Golden Dome swings south along the Black Water first, then curves and
comes around by the west and sweeps the Caranay. You have plenty of time
to take my name."
"But--but the play? I was thinking of the play," she said, looking
anxiously at the brown eyes, which were raised to the sky in silent
misgiving.
"If you don't mind my saying so," said Ellis, "there is ample time for
your outdoor theatricals--if you mean that. You need not look for that
storm on the upper Caranay before late this afternoon. Even then it may
break behind the mountains and you may see no rain--only a flood in the
river."
"Do you really think so?" she asked.
"I do; I can almost answer for it. You see, the Caranay has been my
haunt for many years, and I know almost to a certainty what is likely to
happen here."
"That is jolly!" she exclaimed, greatly relieved. "Helen, I really think
we should be starting----"
But Helen, pencil poised, gazed obdurately at Ellis out of brown eyes
which were scarcely fashioned for such impartial and inexorable work.
"If your name is not Smith I should be very glad to note it," she said.
So he laughed and told her who he was and where he lived; and she wrote
it down, somewhat shakily.
"Of course," she said, "you cannot be the artist--James Lowell Ellis,
the artist--the great----"
She hesitated; brown eyes and grey eyes, very wide now, were
concentrated on him. Jones, too, stared, and Ellis laughed.
"Are you?" blurted out Jones. "Great Heaven! I never supposed----"
Ellis joined in a quartet of silence, then laughed again, a short,
embarrassed laugh.
"You don't look like anything famous, you know," said Jones
reproachfully. "Why didn't you tell me who you are? Why, man, I own two
of your pictures!"
To brown-eyes, known so far as "Helen," Ellis said: "We painters are a
bad lot, you see--but don't let that prejudice you against Mr. Jones; he
really doesn't know me very well. Besides, I dragged him into this
villainy; didn't I, Jones? You didn't want to trespass, you know."
"Oh, come!" said Jones; "I own two of your pictures--the Amourette and
the Corrida. That ought to convict me of almost anything."
Grey-eyes said: "We--my father--has the Espagnolita, Mr. Ellis." She
blushed when she finished.
"Why, then, you must be Miss Sandys!" said Ellis quickly. "Mr. Kenneth
Sandys owns that picture."
The brown eyes, which had widened, then sparkled, then softened as
matters developed, now became uncompromisingly beautiful.
"I am dreadfully sorry," she said, looking at her notebook. "I trust
that the school authorities may not press matters." Then she raised her
eyes to see what Jones's expression might resemble. It resembled
absolutely nothing.
After a silence Miss Sandys said: "Do you think Helen, that we are--that
we ought to report this----"
"Yes, Molly, I do."
"I'm only an architect; fine me, but spare my friend, Ellis," said
Jones far too playfully to placate the brown-eyed Helen. She returned
his glance with a scrutiny devoid of expression. The thunder boomed
along the flanks of Lynx Peak.
"We--we are very sorry," whispered Miss Sandys.
"I am, too," replied Ellis--not meaning anything concerning his legal
predicament.
Brown-eyes looked at Jones; there was a little inclination of her pretty
head as she passed them. A moment later the two young men stood alone,
caps in hand, gazing fixedly into the gathering dimness of Caranay
forest.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
CHAPTER XV
FLOTSAM AND JETSAM
"Ellis," said Jones, earnestly, as they climbed to the camp and stood
gazing at the whitening ashes of their fire, "the simple life is a state
of mind. I'm in it, now. And--do you know, Ellis, that--I--I could learn
to like it?"
Ellis prodded the back-log, and tossed on some dry sticks.
"Great Heaven!" breathed Jones, "did you ever see such eyes, Ellis?"
"The grey ones? They're very noticeable----"
"I meant--well, let it go at that. Here be two of us have lost a
thousand shillings to-day."
"And the ladies were not in buckram," rejoined Ellis, starting a blaze.
"Jones, can you prepare trout for the pan with the aid of a knife? Here,
rub salt in 'em--and leave all but two in that big tin--dry, mind, then
cover it and sink it in the spring, or something furry will come nosing
and clawing at it. I'll have things ready by the time you're back."
"About our canoes," began Jones. "I've daubed mine with white lead, but
I cut it up badly. Hadn't we better attend to them before the storm
breaks?"
"Get yours into camp. I'll fetch mine; it's cached just below the forks.
This storm may tear things."
A quarter of an hour later two vigorous young men swung into camp,
lowered the canoes from their heads and shoulders, carried the strapped
kits, poles and paddles into the lean-to, and turned the light crafts
bottom up as flanking shelters to headquarters.
"No use fishing; that thunder is spoiling the Caranay," muttered Ellis,
moving about and setting the camp in order. "This is a fine lean-to," he
added; "it's big enough for a regiment."
"I told you I was an architect," said Jones, surveying the open-faced
shanty with pride. "I had nothing else to do, so I spent the time in
making this. I'm a corker on the classic. Shall I take an axe and cut
some wood in the Ionic or Doric style?"
Ellis, squatting among the provisions, busily bringing order out of
chaos, told him what sort of wood to cut; and an hour later, when the
echoing thwacks of the axe ceased and Jones came in loaded with
firewood, the camp was in order; hambones, stale bedding, tin cans, the
heads and spinal processes of trout had been removed, dishes polished,
towels washed and drying, and a pleasant aroma of balsam tips mingled
with the spicy scent of the fire.
"Whew!" said Jones, sniffing; "it smells pleasant now."
"Your camp," observed Ellis, "had all the fragrance of a dog-fox in
March. How heavy the air is. Listen to that thunder! There's the deuce
to pay on the upper waters of the Caranay by this time."
"Do you think we'll get it?"
"Not the rain and wind; the electrical storms usually swing off,
following the Big Oswaya. But we may have a flood." He arose and picked
up his rod. "The thunder has probably blanked me, but if you'll tend
camp I'll try to pick up some fish in a binnikill I know of where the
trout are habituated to the roar of the fork falls. We may need every
fish we can get if the flood proves a bad one."
Jones said it would suit him perfectly to sit still. He curled up close
enough to the fire for comfort as well as æsthetic pleasure, removed his
eyeglasses, fished out a flask of aromatic mosquito ointment, and
solemnly began a facial toilet, in the manner of a comfortable house cat
anointing her countenance with one paw.
"Ellis," he said, blinking up at that young man very amiably, "it would
be agreeable to see a little more of--of Miss Sandys; wouldn't it? And
the other----"
"We could easily do that."
"Eh? How?"
"By engaging an attorney to defend ourselves in court," said Ellis
grimly.
"Pooh! You don't suppose that brown-eyed girl----"
"Yes, I do! She means mischief. If it had rested with the other----"
"You're mistaken," said Jones, warmly. "I am perfectly persuaded that if
I had had half an hour's playful conversation with the brown-eyed
one----"
"You tried playfulness and fell down," observed Ellis, coldly. "If I
could have spoken to Miss Sandys----"
"What! A girl with steel-grey eyes like two poniards? A lot of mercy she
would show us! My dear fellow, trust in the brown eye every time! The
warm, humane, brown eye--the emotional, the melting, the tender
brown----"
"Don't trust it! Didn't she kodak twice? You and I are now in her
Rogues' Gallery. Besides, didn't she take notes on her pad? I never
observed anything humane in brown eyes."
Jones polished his nose with the mosquito salve.
"How do you know what she wanted my picture for?" he asked, annoyed.
"Perhaps she means to keep it for herself--if that grey-eyed one lets
her alone----"
"Let the grey-eyed one alone yourself," retorted Ellis, warmly.
"You'd better, too. Any expert in human character can tell you which of
those girls means mischief."
"If you think you're an expert--" began Ellis, irritated, then stopped
short. Jones followed his eyes.
"Look at that stream," said Ellis, dropping his rod against the lean-to.
"There's been a cloudburst in the mountains. There's no rain here, but
look at that stream! Yellow and bank-full! Hark! Hear the falls. I
have an idea the woods will be awash below us in an hour."
They descended to the ledge which an hour ago had overhung the stream.
Now the water was level with it, lapping over it, rising perceptibly in
the few seconds they stood there. Alders and willows along the banks,
almost covered, staggered in the discolored water; drift of all sorts
came tumbling past, rotten branches, piles of brush afloat, ferns and
shrubs uprooted; the torrent was thick with flakes of bark and forest
mould and green-leaved twigs torn from the stream-side.
From the lower reaches a deer came galloping toward the ridges; a fox
stole furtively into the open, hesitated, and slunk off up the valley.
And now the shallow gorge began to roar under the rising flood; tumbling
castles of piled-up foam whirled into view; the amber waves washed
through the fringing beech growth, slopping into hollows, setting the
dead leaves afloat. A sucking sound filled the woods; millions of tiny
bubbles purred in the shallow overflow; here and there dead branches
stirred, swung and floated.
"Our camp is going to be an island pretty soon," observed Ellis; "just
look at----"
But Jones caught him by the arm. "What is that?" he demanded shakily.
"Are there things like that in these woods?"
At the same instant Ellis caught sight of something in midstream bearing
down on them in a smother of foam--an enormous lizard-like creature
floundering throat-deep in the flood.
"What is it, Ellis? Look! It's got a tail ten feet long! Great Heaven,
look at it!"
"I see it," said Ellis, hoarsely. "I never saw such a thing----"
"It's opening its jaws!" gasped Jones.
Ellis, a trifle white around the cheekbones, stared in frozen silence at
the fearsome creature as it swept down on them. A crested wave rolled
it over; four fearsome claws waved in the air; then the creature righted
itself and swung in toward the bank.
"Upon my word!" stammered Ellis; "it's part of their theatrical
property. Lord! how real it looked out yonder. I knew it couldn't be
alive, but--Jones, see how my hands are shaking. Would you believe a man
could be rattled like that?"
"Believe it? I should say I could! Look at the thing wabbling there in
the shallows as though it were trying to move its flippers! Look at
it, Ellis; see how it seems to wriggle and paddle----"
The words froze on his lips; the immense creature was moving; the scaled
claws churned the shallows; a spasm shook the head; the jaws gaped.
"Help!" said a very sweet and frightened voice.
Ellis got hold of one claw, Jones the other, almost before they
comprehended--certainly before, deep in the scaly creature's maw, they
discovered the frightened but lovely features of the grey-eyed girl who
had snap-shot them.
"Please pull," she said; "I can't swim in this!"
Almost hysterically they soothed her as they tugged and steered the
thing into the flooded forest.
"Mr. Ellis--please--please don't pull quite so hard," she called out.
"Oh, did I hurt you?" he cried so tenderly that, even in the shock of
emotions, Jones was ashamed of him.
"No, you don't hurt me, Mr. Ellis; I'm all right inside here, but
I--I--you must not pull this papier-mâché dragon to pieces----"
"What do I care for the dragon if you are in danger?" cried Ellis,
excitedly.
But it was a frightened and vexed voice that answered almost tearfully:
"If you pull too hard on the pasteboard legs something dreadful may
happen. I--this dragon is--is about the only clothing I have on!"
Ellis dropped the flipper, seized it again, and gazed into the scared
eyes of Jones.
"For Heaven's sake, go easy," he hissed, "or the thing will come apart!"
Jones, in a cold perspiration, stood knee-deep in the flood, not daring
to touch the flipper again.
"You help here," he whispered, hoarsely. "If she stands up, now, you can
support her to camp, can't you?"
Ellis bent over and looked into the gaping jaws of Fafnir the Dragon.
"Miss Sandys," he said seriously, "do you think you could get on your
hind--on your feet?"
The legs of the monster splashed, groping for the bottom; Ellis passed
his arm around the scaly body; Fafnir arose, rather wabbly, and took
one dripping step forward.
[Illustration: "Beyond, rocking wildly in a gilded boat, sat two people
and a placid swan."]
"I fancy we can manage it now, Jones," said Ellis, cheerfully, turning
around; but Jones did not answer; he was running away, dashing and
splashing down the flooded forest. Beyond, rocking wildly in a gilded
boat, sat two people and a placid swan.
"Good Lord!" faltered Ellis, as the dragon turned with a little shriek.
"Is the whole Summer School being washed away?"
"No," she said excitedly, "but the dam broke. Helen and Professor Rawson
tried to save the swan-boat--we were giving tableaux from "Lohengrin"
and "The Rheingold"--and--oh! oh! oh! such a torrent came! Helen--there
she is in armour--Helen tried to paddle the boat, but the swans pulled
the other way, and they flapped so wildly that Helen called for help.
Then one of the Rhine-maidens--Professor Rawson--waded in and got
aboard, but the paddle broke and they were adrift. Then one of those
horrid swans got loose, and everybody screamed, and the water rose
higher and higher, and nobody helped anybody, so, so--as I swim well, I
jumped in without waiting to undress--you see I had been acting the
dragon, Fafnir, and I went in just as I was; but the papier-mâché dragon
kept turning turtle with me, and first I knew I was being spun around
like a top."
There was a silence; they stood watching Jones scrambling after the
swan-boat, which had come to grief in shallow water. Professor Rawson,
the Rhine-maiden, gave one raucous and perfunctory shriek as Jones
floundered alongside--for the garb of the normal Rhine-daughter is
scanty, and Professor Rawson's costume, as well as her maidenly
physique, was almost anything except redundant.
As for Helen, sometime known as brown-eyes, she rose to her slim height,
all glittering in tin armour, and gave Jones a smile of heavenly
gratitude that shot him through and through his Norfolk jacket.
"Don't look!" said Professor Rawson, in a voice which, between the
emotions of recent terror and present bashfulness, had dwindled to a
squeak. "Don't look; I'm going to jump." And jump she did, taking to the
water with a trifle less grace than the ordinary Rhine-maiden.
There was a spattering splash, a smothered squawk which may have been
emitted by the swan, and the next moment Professor Rawson was churning
toward dry land, her wreath of artificial seaweed over one eye, her
spectacles glittering amid her dank tresses.
Jones looked up at brown-eyes balancing in the bow of the painted boat.
"I can get you ashore quite dry--if you don't mind," he said.
She considered the water; she considered Jones; she looked carefully at
the wallowing Rhine-daughter.
"Are you sure you can?" she asked.
"Perfectly certain," breathed Jones.
"I am rather heavy----"
The infatuated man laughed.
"Well, then, I'll carry the swan," she said calmly; and, seizing that
dignified and astonished bird, she walked demurely off the prow of the
gaudy boat into the arms of Jones.
To Ellis and the grey-eyed dragon, and to Professor Rawson, who had
crawled to a dry spot on the ridge, there was a dreadful fascination in
watching that swaying pyramid of Jones, Lohengrin, and swan tottering
landward, knee-deep through the flood. The pyramid swayed dangerously at
times; but the girl in the tin armour clasped Jones around the neck and
clung to the off leg of the swan, and Jones staggered on, half-strangled
by the arm and buffeted by the flapping bird, until his oozing shoes
struck dry land.
"Hurrah!" cried Ellis, his enthusiasm breaking out after an agonizing
moment of suspense; and Miss Sandys, forgetting her plight, waved her
lizard claws and hailed rescuer and rescued with a clear-voiced cheer as
they came up excited and breathless, hustling before them the outraged
swan, who waddled furiously forward, craning its neck and snapping.
"What is that?" muttered Jones aside to Ellis as the dragon and
Lohengrin embraced hysterically. He glanced toward the Rhine-maiden, who
was hiding behind a tree.
"Rhine wine with the cork pulled," replied Ellis, gravely. "Go up to
camp and get her your poncho. I'll do what I can to make things
comfortable in camp."
The girl in armour was saying, "You poor, brave dear! How perfectly
splendid it was of you to plunge into the flood with all that pasteboard
dragon-skin tied to you--like Horatius at the bridge. Molly, I'm simply
overcome at your bravery!"
And all the while she was saying this, Molly Sandys was saying: "Helen,
how did you ever dare to try to save the boat, with those horrid swans
flapping and nipping at you every second! It was the most courageous
thing I ever heard of, and I simply revere you, Helen Gay!"
Jones, returning from camp with his poncho, said: "There's a jolly fire
in camp and plenty of provisions;" and sidled toward the tree behind
which Professor Rawson was attempting to prevent several yards of
cheese cloth from adhering too closely to her outline.
"Go away!" said that spinster, severely, peering out at him with a
visage terminating in a length of swan-like neck which might have been
attractive if feathered.
"I'm only bringing you a poncho," said Jones, blushing.
Ellis heard a smothered giggle behind him, but when he turned Molly
Sandys had shrunk into her dragon-skin, and Helen Gay had lowered the
vizor of her helmet.
"I think we had better go to the camp-fire," he said gravely. "It's only
a step."
"We think so, too," they said. "Thank you for asking us, Mr. Ellis."
So Ellis led the way; after him slopped the dragon, its scaled tail
dragging sticks and dead leaves in its wake; next waddled the swan,
perforce, prodded forward by the brown-eyed maid in her tin armor.
Professor Rawson, mercifully disguised in a rubber poncho, under which
her thin shins twinkled, came in the rear, gallantly conducted by Jones
in oozing shoes.
[Illustration]
CHAPTER XVI
THE SIMPLEST SOLUTION OF AN ANCIENT PROBLEM
In the silence befitting such an extraordinary occasion the company
formed a circle about the camp-fire.
Presently Professor Rawson looked sharply at the damp dragon. "Child!"
she exclaimed, "you ought to take that off this instant!"
"But--but I haven't very much on," protested Molly Sandys with a shiver.
"I'm only dressed as a--a page."
"It can't be helped," retorted the professor with decision; "that dragon
is nothing but soaking pulp except where the tail is on fire!"
Ellis hastily set his foot on the sparks, just as Molly Sandys jumped.
There was a tearing, ripping sound, a stifled scream, and three-quarters
of a page in blue satin and lisle thread, wearing the head and shoulders
of a dragon, shrank down behind Professor Rawson's poncho-draped figure.
"Here's my poncho," cried Ellis, hastily; "I am awfully sorry I ripped
your gown--I mean your pasteboard tail--but you switched it into the
fire and it was burning."
"Have you something for me?" inquired Miss Gay, coloring, but calm; "I'm
not very comfortable, either."
Jones's enraptured eyes lingered on the slim shape in mail; he hated to
do it, but he brought a Navajo blanket and draped in it the most
distractingly pretty figure his rather nearsighted eyes had ever
encountered.
"There," explained Ellis, courteously, "is the shanty. I've hung a
blanket over it. Jones and I will sleep here by the fire."
"Sleep!" faltered Molly Sandys. "I think we ought to be starting----"
"The forests are flooded; we can't get you back to the Summer School
to-night," said Ellis.
Professor Rawson shuddered. "Do you mean that we are cut off from
civilization entirely?" she asked.
"Look!" replied Ellis.
The ridge on which the camp lay had become an island; below it roared a
spreading flood under a column of mist and spray; all about them the
water soused and washed through the forest; below them from the forks
came the pounding thunder of the falls.
"There's nothing to be alarmed at, of course," he said, looking at Molly
Sandys.
The grey eyes looked back into his. "Isn't there, really?" she asked.
"Isn't there?" questioned Miss Gray's brown eyes of Jones's pleasant,
nearsighted ones.
"No," signalled the orbs of Jones through his mud-spattered eyeglasses.
"I'm hungry," observed Professor Rawson in a patient but plaintive
voice, like the note of a widowed guinea-hen.
So they all sat down on the soft pine-needles, while Ellis began his
culinary sleight-of-hand; and in due time trout were frying merrily,
bacon sputtered, ash-cakes and coffee exhaled agreeable odors, and
mounds of diaphanous flapjacks tottered in hot and steaming fragrance on
either flank.
There were but two plates; Jones constructed bark platters for Professor
Rawson, Ellis and himself; Helen Gay shared knife and fork with Jones;
Molly Sandys condescended to do the same for Ellis; Professor Rawson had
a set of those articles to herself.
And there, in the pleasant glow of the fire, Molly Sandys, cross-legged
beside Ellis, drank out of his tin cup and ate his flapjacks; and Helen
Gay said shyly that never had she tasted such a banquet as this forest
fare washed down with bumpers of icy, aromatic spring water. As for
Professor Rawson, she lifted the hem of her poncho and discreetly dried
that portion of the Rhine-maiden's clothing which needed it; and while
she sizzled contentedly, she ate flapjack on flapjack, and trout after
trout, until merriment grew within her and she laughed when the younger
people laughed, and felt a delightful thrill of recklessness tingling
the soles of her stockings. And why not?
"It's a very simple matter, after all," declared Jones; "it's nothing
but a state of mind. I thought I was leading a simple life before I came
here, but I wasn't. Why? Merely because I was not in a state of mind.
But"--and here he looked full at Helen Gay--"but no sooner had I begun
to appreciate the charm of the forest"--she blushed vividly "no sooner
had I realised what these awful solitudes might contain, than,
instantly, I found myself in a state of mind. Then, and then only, I
understood what heavenly perfection might be included in that frayed and
frazzled phrase, 'The Simple Life.'"
"I understood it long ago," said Ellis, dreamily.
"Did you?" asked Molly Sandys.
"Yes--long ago--about six hours ago"--he lowered his voice, for Molly
Sandys had turned her head away from the firelight toward the cooler
shadow of the forest.
"What happened," she asked, carelessly, "six hours ago?"
"I first saw you."
"No," she said calmly; "I first saw you and took your picture!" She
spoke coolly enough, but her color was bright.
"Ah, but before that shutter clicked, convicting me of a misdemeanor,
your picture had found a place----"
"Mr. Ellis!"
"Please let me----"
"No!"
"Please----"
A silence.
"Then you must speak lower," she said, "and pretend to be watching the
stream."
Professor Rawson gleefully scraped her plate and snuggled up in her
poncho. She was very happy. When she could eat no more she asked Jones
what his theory might be concerning Wagner's influence on Richard
Strauss, and Jones said he liked waltzes, but didn't know that the man
who wrote The Simple Life had anything to do with that sort of thing.
And Professor Rawson laughed and laughed, and quoted a Greek proverb;
and presently arose and went into the shanty, dropping the blanket
behind her.
"Don't sit up late!" she called sleepily.
"Oh, no!" came the breathless duet.
"And don't forget to feed the swan!"
"Oh, no!"
A few minutes later a gentle, mellow, muffled monotone vibrated in the
evening air. It was the swan-song of Professor Rawson.
Ellis laid fresh logs on the blaze, lighted a cigarette, and returned to
his seat beside Molly Sandys, who sat, swathed in her poncho, leaning
back against the base of a huge pine.
"Jones is right," he said; "the simple life--the older and simpler
emotions, the primal desire--is a state of mind."
Molly Sandys was silent.
"And a state of--heart."
Miss Sandys raised her eyebrows.
"Why be insincere?" persisted Ellis.
"I'm not!"
"No--no--I didn't mean you. I meant everybody----"
"I'm somebody----"
"Indeed you are!"--much too warmly; and Molly Sandys looked up at the
evening star.
"The simple life," said Ellis, "is an existence replete with sincerity.
Impulse may play a pretty part in it; the capacity for the enjoyment of
simple things grows out of impulse; and impulse is a child's reasoning.
Therefore, impulse, being unsullied, unaffected in its source, is to be
respected, cherished, guided into a higher development, so that it may
become a sweet reasonableness, an unerring philosophy. Am I right, Miss
Sandys?"
"I think you are."
"Well, then, following out my theorem logically, what is a man to do
when, without an instant's warning, he finds himself----"
There was a pause, a long one.
"Finds himself where?" asked Molly Sandys.
"In love."
"I--I don't know," she said, faintly. "Doesn't the simple life teach him
what is--is proper--on such brief acquaintance----"
"I didn't say the acquaintance was brief. I only said the love was
sudden."
"Oh--then I--I don't know----"
"M-Mo-Mi-M-M----"
He wanted to say "Molly," and he didn't want to say "Miss Sandys," and
he couldn't keep his mouth shut, so that was the phonetic result--a
muttering monotone which embarrassed them both and maddened him till he
stammered out: "The moment I saw you I--I can't help it; it's the
simplest thing to do, anyhow--to tell you----"
"Me!"
"You, M-M-Mo-Mi-M----" He couldn't say it.
"Try," she whispered, stifling with laughter.
"Molly!" Like a cork from a popgun came the adored yet dreaded name.
Molly turned scarlet as Miss Gay and Jones looked up in pure amazement
from the farther side of the camp-fire.
"Don't you know how to make love?" she whispered in a fierce little
voice; "don't you? If you don't I am going off to bed."
"Molly!" That was better--in fact, it was so low that she could scarcely
hear him. But she said: "Doesn't Helen Gay look charming in her tin
armour? She is the dearest, sweetest girl, Mr. Ellis. She's my cousin.
Do you think her pretty?"
"Do you know," whispered Ellis, "that I am in dead earnest?"
"Why, I--I hope so."
"Then tell me what chance I stand. I am in love; it came awfully
