"Then I may assume that it was accidental. You talked together with
the freedom of old friends?"
"You are correctly informed."
"You seem to make acquaintances very readily, Miss Linden. It seems
singular, to say the least, that after meeting my nephew for a single
evening, you should become such intimate friends."
"You will be surprised, Mrs. Leighton, when I say that Mr. de Brabazon
and I are old friends. We have met frequently."
"Where, in Heaven's name?" ejaculated Mrs. Leighton.
"At my residence."
"Good Heavens!" exclaimed the scandalized lady. "Does my nephew Percy
visit at the house of this apple-woman?"
"No, madam. He does not know where I live."
"Then you will explain your previous statement?" said Mrs. Leighton,
haughtily.
"I am at present suffering reversed circumstances. It is but a short
time since I was very differently situated."
"I won't inquire into your change of circumstances. I feel compelled
to perform an unpleasant duty."
Florence did not feel called upon to make any reply, but waited for
Mrs. Leighton to finish speaking.
"I shall be obliged to dispense with your services as my daughter's
governess. It is quite out of the question for me to employ a person
who lives in a tenement-house."
Florence bowed acquiescence, but she felt very sad. She had become
attached to her young charge, and it cost her a pang to part from her.
Besides, how was she to supply the income of which this would deprive
her?
"I bow to your decision, madam," she said, with proud humility.
"You will find here the sum that I owe you, with payment for an extra
week in lieu of notice."
"Thank you. May I bid Carrie good-by, Mrs. Leighton?"
"It is better not to do so, I think. The more quietly we dissolve our
unfortunate connection the better!"
Florence's heart swelled, and the tears came to her eyes, but she
could not press her request.
She was destined, however, to obtain the privilege which Mrs. Leighton
denied her. Carrie, who had become impatient, came downstairs and
burst into the room.
"What keeps you so long, Miss Linden?" she said. "Is mamma keeping
you?"
Florence was silent, leaving the explanations to Mrs. Leighton.
"Miss Linden has resigned her position as your governess, Carrie."
"Miss Linden going away! I won't have her go! What makes you go, Miss
Linden?"
"Your mamma thinks it best," answered Florence, with moistened eyes.
"Well, I don't!" exclaimed Carrie, stamping her foot, angrily. "I
won't have any other governess but you."
"Carrie, you are behaving very unbecomingly," said her mother.
"Will you tell me, mamma, why you are sending Miss Linden away?"
"I will tell you some other time."
"But I want to know now."
"I am very much displeased with you, Carrie."
"And I am very much displeased with you, mamma."
I do not pretend to defend Carrie, whose conduct was hardly respectful
enough to her mother; but with all her faults she had a warm heart,
while her mother had always been cold and selfish.
"I am getting tired of this," said Mrs. Leighton. "Miss Linden, as you
are here to-day, you may give Carrie the usual lessons. As I shall be
out when you get through, I bid you good-by now."
"Good-by, Mrs. Leighton."
Carrie and Florence went to the schoolroom for the last time.
Florence gave her young pupil a partial explanation of the cause which
had led to her discharge.
"What do I care if you live in a poor house, Miss Linden?" said
Carrie, impetuously. "I will make mamma take you back!"
Florence smiled; but she knew that there would be no return for her.
When she reached her humble home she had a severe headache and lay
down. Mrs. O'Keefe came in later to see her.
"And what's the matter with you, Florence?" she asked.
"I have a bad headache, Mrs. O'Keefe."
"You work too hard, Florence, wid your teacher. That is what gives you
the headache."
"Then I shan't have it again, for I have got through with my
teaching."
"What's that you say?"
"I am discharged."
"And what's it all about?"
Florence explained matters. Mrs. O'Keefe became indignant.
"She's a mean trollop, that Mrs. Leighton!" she exclaimed, "and I'd
like to tell her so to her face. Where does she live?"
"It will do no good to interfere, my good friend. She is not willing
to receive a governess from a tenement house."
"Shure you used to live in as grand a house as herself."
"But I don't now."
"Don't mind it too much, mavoureen. You'll soon be gettin' another
scholar. Go to sleep now, and you'll sleep the headache away."
Florence finally succeeded in following the advice of her humble
friend.
She resolved to leave till the morrow the cares of the morrow.
She had twelve dollars, and before that was spent she hoped to be in a
position to earn some more.
Chapter XXXII.
An Exciting Adventure.
Dodger soon became accustomed to his duties at Tucker's express
office, in his new San Francisco home. He found Mr. Tucker an
exacting, but not an unreasonable, man. He watched his new assistant
closely for the first few days, and was quietly taking his measure.
At the end of the first week he paid the salary agreed upon--fifteen
dollars.
"You have been with me a week, Arthur," he said.
"Yes, sir."
"And I have been making up my mind about you."
"Yes, sir," said Dodger, looking up inquiringly. "I hope you are
satisfied with me?"
"Yes, I think I may say that I am. You don't seem to be afraid of
work."
"I have always been accustomed to work."
"That is well. I was once induced to take the son of a rich man in the
place you now occupy. He had never done a stroke of work, having
always been at school. He didn't take kindly to work, and seemed
afraid that he would be called upon to do more than he had bargained
for. One evening I was particularly busy, and asked him to remain an
hour overtime.
"'It will be very inconvenient, Mr. Tucker,' said the young man, 'as
I have an engagement with a friend.'
"He left me to do all the extra work, and--I suppose you know what
happened the next Saturday evening?"
"I can guess," returned Dodger, with a smile.
"I told him that I thought the duties were too heavy for his
constitution, and he had better seek an easier place. Let me see--I
kept you an hour and a half overtime last Wednesday."
"Yes, sir."
"You made no objection, but worked on just as if you liked it."
"Yes, sir; I am always willing to stay when you need me."
"Good! I shan't forget it."
Dodger felt proud of his success, and put away the fifteen dollars
with a feeling of satisfaction. He had never saved half that sum in
the same time before.
"Curtis Waring did me a favor when he sent me out here," he reflected;
"but as he didn't mean it, I have no occasion to feel grateful."
Dodger found that he could live for eight dollars a week, and he began
to lay by seven dollars a week with the view of securing funds
sufficient to take him back to New York.
He was in no hurry to leave San Francisco, but he felt that Florence
might need a friend. But he found that he was making progress slowly.
At that time the price of a first-class ticket to New York was one
hundred and twenty-eight dollars, besides the expense of sleeping
berths, amounting then, as now, to twenty-two dollars extra. So it
looked as if Dodger would be compelled to wait at least six months
before he should be in a position to set out on the return journey.
About this time Dodger received a letter from Florence, in which she
spoke of her discharge by Mrs. Leighton.
"I shall try to obtain another position as teacher," she said,
concealing her anxiety. "I am sure, in a large city, I can find
something to do."
But Dodger knew better than she the difficulties that beset the path
of an applicant for work, and he could not help feeling anxious for
Florence.
"If I were only in New York," he said to himself, "I would see that
Florence didn't suffer. I will write her to let me know if she is in
need, and I will send her some money."
About this time he met with an adventure which deserves to be noted.
It was about seven o'clock one evening that he found himself in
Mission Street.
At a street corner his attention was drawn to a woman poorly dressed,
who held by the hand a child of three.
Her clothing was shabby, and her attitude was one of despondency. It
was clear that she was ill and in trouble.
Dodger possessed quick sympathies, and his own experience made him
quick to understand and feel for the troubles of others.
Though the woman made no appeal, he felt instinctively that she needed
help.
"I beg your pardon," he said, with as much deference as if he were
addressing one favored by fortune, "but you seem to be in need of
help?"
"God knows, I am!" said the woman, sadly.
"Perhaps I can be of service to you. Will you tell me how?"
"Neither I nor my child has tasted food since yesterday."
"Well, that can be easily remedied," said Dodger, cheerfully. "There
is a restaurant close by. I was about to eat supper. Will you come in
with me?"
"I am ashamed to impose upon the kindness of a stranger," murmured the
woman.
"Don't mention it. I shall be very glad of company," said Dodger,
heartily.
"But you are a poor boy. You may be ill able to afford the expense."
"I am not a millionaire," said Dodger, "and I don't see any immediate
prospect of my building a palace on Nob Hill"--where live some of San
Francisco's wealthiest citizens--"but I am very well supplied with
money."
"Then I will accept your kind invitation."
It was a small restaurant, but neat in its appointments, and, as in
most San Francisco restaurants, the prices were remarkably moderate.
At an expense of twenty-five cents each, the three obtained a
satisfactory meal.
The woman and child both seemed to enjoy it, and Dodger was glad to
see that the former became more cheerful as time went on.
There was something in the child's face that looked familiar to
Dodger. It was a resemblance to some one that he had seen, but he
could not for the life of him decide who it was.
"How can I ever thank you for your kindness?" said the lady, as she
arose from the table. "You don't know what it is to be famished----"
"Don't I?" asked Dodger. "I have been hungry more than once, without
money enough to buy a meal."
"You don't look it," she said.
"No, for now I have a good place and am earning a good salary."
"Are you a native of San Francisco?"
"No, madam. I can't tell you where I was born, for I know little or
nothing of my family. I have only been here a short time. I came from
New York."
"So did I," said the woman, with a sigh. "I wish I were back there
again."
"How came you to be here? Don't answer if you prefer not to," Dodger
added, hastily.
"I have no objection. My husband deserted me, and left me to shift for
myself and support my child."
"How have you done it?"
"By taking in sewing. But that is a hard way of earning money. There
are too many poor women who are ready to work for starvation wages,
and so we all suffer."
"I know that," answered Dodger. "Do you live near here?"
The woman mentioned a street near by.
"I have one poor back room on the third floor," she explained; "but I
should be glad if I were sure to stay there."
"Is there any danger of your being ejected?"
"I am owing for two weeks' rent, and this is the middle of the third
week. Unless I can pay up at the end of this week I shall be forced to
go out into the streets with my poor child."
"How much rent do you pay?"
"A dollar a week."
"Then three dollars will relieve you for the present?"
"Yes; but it might as well be three hundred," said the woman,
bitterly.
"Not quite; I can supply you with three dollars, but three hundred
would be rather beyond my means."
"You are too kind, too generous! I ought not to accept such a liberal
gift."
"Mamma, I am tired. Take me up in your arms," said the child.
"Poor child! He has been on his feet all day," sighed the mother.
She tried to lift the child, but her own strength had been undermined
by privation, and she was clearly unable to do so.
"Let me take him!" said Dodger. "Here, little one, jump up!"
He raised the child easily, and despite the mother's protest, carried
him in his arms.
"I will see you home, madam," he said.
"I fear the child will be too heavy for you."
"I hope not. Why, I could carry a child twice as heavy."
They reached the room at last--a poor one, but a welcome repose from
the streets.
"Don't you ever expect to see your husband again?" asked Dodger.
"Can't you compel him to support you?"
"I don't know where he is," answered the woman, despondently.
"If you will tell me his name, I may come across him some day."
"His name," said the woman, "is Curtis Waring."
Dodger stared at her, overwhelmed with surprise.
Chapter XXXIII.
An Important Discovery.
"Curtis Waring!" ejaculated Dodger, his face showing intense surprise.
"Is that the name of your husband?"
"Yes. Is it possible that you know him?" asked the woman, struck by
Dodger's tone.
"I know a man by that name. I will describe him, and you can tell me
whether it is he. He is rather tall, dark hair, sallow complexion,
black eyes, and a long, thin nose."
"It is like him in every particular. Oh, tell me where he is to be
found?"
"He lives in New York. He is the nephew of a rich man, and is
expecting to inherit his wealth. Through his influence a cousin of
his, a young lady, has been driven from home."
"Was he afraid she would deprive him of the estate?"
"That was partly the reason. But it was partly to revenge himself on
her because she would not agree to marry him."
"But how could he marry her," exclaimed the unfortunate woman, "when
he is already married to me?"
"Neither she nor any one of his family or friends knew that he was
already married. I don't think it would trouble him much."
"But it must be stopped!" she exclaimed, wildly. "He is my husband. I
shall not give him up to any one else."
"So far as Florence is concerned--she is the cousin--she has no wish
to deprive you of him. But is it possible that you are attached to a
man who has treated you so meanly?" asked Dodger, in surprise.
"There was a time when he treated me well, when he appeared to love
me," was the murmured reply. "I cannot forget that he is the father of
my child."
Dodger did not understand the nature of women or the mysteries of the
female heart, and he evidently thought this poor woman very foolish to
cling with such pertinacity to a man like Curtis Waring.
"Do you mind telling me how you came to marry him?" he asked.
"It was over four years ago that I met him in this city," was the
reply. "I am a San Francisco girl. I had never been out of California.
I was considered pretty then," she added, with a remnant of pride,
"faded as I am to-day."
Looking closely in her face, Dodger was ready to believe this.
Grief and privation had changed her appearance, but it had not
altogether effaced the bloom and beauty of youth.
"At any rate, he seemed to think so. He was living at the Palace
Hotel, and I made his acquaintance at a small social gathering at the
house of my uncle. I am an orphan, and was perhaps the more ready to
marry on that account."
"Did Mr. Waring represent himself as wealthy?"
"He said he had expectations from a wealthy relative, but did not
mention where he lived."
"He told the truth, then."
"We married, securing apartments on Kearney Street. We lived together
till my child was born, and for three months afterward. Then Mr.
Waring claimed to be called away from San Francisco on business. He
said he might be absent six weeks. He left me a hundred dollars, and
urged me to be careful of it, as he was short of money, and needed
considerable for the expenses of the journey. He left me, and I have
never seen or heard from him since."
"Did he tell you where he was going, Mrs. Waring?"
"No; he said he would be obliged to visit several places--among
others, Colorado, where he claimed to have some mining property. He
told me that he hoped to bring back considerable money."
"Do you think he meant to stay away altogether?"
"I don't know what to think. Well, I lived on patiently, for I had
perfect confidence in my husband. I made the money last me ten weeks
instead of six, but then I found myself penniless."
"Did you receive any letters in that time?"
"No, and it was that that worried me. When at last the money gave out,
I began to pawn my things--more than once I was tempted to pawn my
wedding-ring, but I could not bring my mind to do that. I do not like
to think ill of my husband, and was forced, as the only alternative,
to conclude that he had met with some accident, perhaps had died. I
have not felt certain that this was not so till you told me this
evening that you know him."
"I can hardly say that I know him well, yet I know him a good deal
better than I wish I did. But for him I would not now be in San
Francisco."
"How is that? Please explain."
Dodger told her briefly the story of his abduction.
"But what motive could he have in getting you out of New York? I
cannot understand."
"I don't understand myself, except that I am the friend of Florence."
"His cousin?"
"Yes."
"But why should she be compelled to leave her uncle's home?"
"Because Curtis Waring made him set his heart upon the match. She had
her choice to marry Curtis or to leave the house, and forfeit all
chance of the estate. She chose to leave the house."
"She ought to know that he has no right to marry," said the poor
woman, who, not understanding the dislike of Florence for the man whom
she herself loved, feared that she might yet be induced to marry him.
"She ought to know, and her uncle ought to know," said Dodger. "Mrs.
Waring, I can't see my way clear yet. If I were in New York I would
know just what to do. Will you agree to stand by me, and help me?"
"Yes, I will," answered the woman, earnestly.
"I will see you again to-morrow evening. Here is some money to help
you along for the present. Good-night."
Dodger, as he walked away, pondered over the remarkable discovery he
had made.
It was likely to prove of the utmost importance to Florence.
Her uncle's displeasure was wholly based upon her refusal to marry
Curtis Waring, but if it should be proved to him that Curtis was
already a married man, there would seem no bar to reconciliation.
Moreover--and thas was particularly satisfactory--it would bring
Curtis himself into disfavor.
Florence would be reinstated in her rightful place in her uncle's
family, and once more be recognized as heiress to at least a portion
of his large fortune.
This last consideration might not weigh so much with Florence, but
Dodger was more practical, and he wished to restore her to the social
position which she had lost through the knavery of her cousin.
But in San Francisco--at a distance of over three thousand miles--
Dodger felt at a loss how to act.
Even if Mr. Linden was informed that his nephew had a wife living in
San Francisco, the statement would no doubt be denied by Curtis, who
would brand the woman as an impudent adventuress.
"The absent are always in the wrong," says a French proverb.
At all events, they are very much at a disadvantage, and therefore it
seemed imperatively necessary, not only that Dodger, but that Curtis
Waring's wife should go to New York to confront the unprincipled man
whose schemes had brought sorrow to so many.
It was easy to decide what plan was best, but how to carry it out
presented a difficulty which seemed insurmountable.
The expenses of a journey to New York for Dodger, Mrs. Waring and her
child would not be very far from five hundred dollars, and where to
obtain this money was a problem.
Randolph Leslie probably had that sum, but Dodger could not in
conscience ask him to lend it, being unable to furnish adequate
security, or to insure repayment.
"If I could only find a nugget," thought Dodger, knitting his brows,
"everything would be easy." But nuggets are rare enough in the gold
fields, and still rarer in city streets.
He who trusts wholly to luck trusts to a will-o'-the-wisp, and is
about as sure of success as one who owns a castle in Spain.
The time might come when Dodger, by his own efforts, could accumulate
the needed sum, but it would require a year at least, and in that time
Mr. Linden would probably be dead.
Absorbed and disturbed by these reflections, Dodger walked slowly
through the darkened streets till he heard a stifled cry, and looking
up, beheld a sight that startled him.
On the sidewalk lay the prostrate figure of a man. Over him, bludgeon
in hand, bent a ruffian, whose purpose was only too clearly evident.
Chapter XXXIV.
Just In Time.
Dodger, who was a strong, stout boy, gathered himself up and dashed
against the ruffian with such impetuosity that he fell over his
intended victim, and his bludgeon fell from his hand.
It was the work of an instant to lift it, and raise it in a menacing
position.
The discomfited villain broke into a volley of oaths, and proceeded to
pick himself up.
He was a brutal-looking fellow, but was no larger than Dodger, who was
as tall as the majority of men.
"Give me that stick," he exclaimed, furiously.
"Come and take it," returned Dodger, undaunted.
The fellow took him at his word, and made a rush at our hero, but a
vigorous blow from the bludgeon made him cautious about repeating the
attack.
"Curse you!" he cried, between his teeth. "I'd like to chaw you up."
"I have no doubt you would," answered Dodger; "but I don't think you
will. Were you going to rob this man?"
"None of your business!"
"I shall make it my business. You'd better go, or you may be locked
up."
"Give me that stick, then."
"You'll have to do without it."
He made another rush, and Dodger struck him such a blow on his arm
that he winced with pain.
"Now I shall summon the police, and you can do as you please about
going."
Dodger struck the stick sharply on the sidewalk three times, and the
ruffian, apprehensive of arrest, ran around the corner just in time to
rush into the arms of a policeman.
"What has this man been doing?" asked the city guardian, turning to
Dodger.
"He was about to rob this man."
"Is the man hurt?"
"Where am I?" asked the prostrate man, in a bewildered tone.
"I will take care of him, if you will take charge of that fellow."
"Can you get up, sir?" asked Dodger, bending over the fallen man.
The latter answered by struggling to his feet and looking about him in
a confused way.
"Where am I?" he asked. "What has happened?"
"You were attacked by a ruffian. I found you on the sidewalk, with him
bending over you with this club in his hand."
"He must have followed me. I was imprudent enough to show a
well-filled pocketbook in a saloon where I stopped to take a drink. No
doubt he planned to relieve me of it."
"You have had a narrow escape, sir."
"I have no doubt of it. I presume the fellow was ready to take my
life, if he found it necessary."
"I will leave you now, sir, if you think you can manage."
"No, stay with me. I feel rather upset."
"Where are you staying, sir?"
"At the Palace Hotel. Of course you know where that is?"
"Certainly. Will you take my arm?"
"Thank you."
Little was said till they found themselves in the sumptuous hotel,
which hardly has an equal in America.
"Come to my room, young man; I want to speak to you."
It was still early in the evening, and Dodger's time was his own.
He had no hesitation, therefore, in accepting the stranger's
invitation.
On the third floor the stranger produced a key and opened the door of
a large, handsomely-furnished room.
"If you have a match, please light the gas."
Dodger proceeded to do so, and now, for the first time, obtained a
good view of the man he had rescued. He was a man of about the average
height, probably not far from fifty, dressed in a neat business suit,
and looked like a substantial merchant.
"Please be seated."
Dodger sat down in an easy-chair conveniently near him.
"Young man," said the stranger, impressively, "you have done me a
great favor."
Dodger felt that this was true, and did not disclaim it.
"I am very glad I came up just as I did," he said.
"How large a sum of money do you think I had about me?" asked his
companion.
"Five hundred dollars?"
"Five hundred dollars! Why, that would be a mere trifle."
"It wouldn't be a trifle to me, sir," said Dodger.
"Are you poor?" asked the man, earnestly.
"I have a good situation that pays me fifteen dollars a week, so I
ought not to consider myself poor."
"Suppose you had a considerable sum of money given you, what would you
do with it?"
"If I had five hundred dollars, I should be able to defeat the schemes
of a villain, and restore a young lady to her rights."
"That seems interesting. Tell me the circumstances."
Dodger told the story as briefly as he could. He was encouraged to
find that the stranger listened to him with attention.
"Do you know," he said, reflectively, "you have done for me what I
once did for another--a rich man? The case was very similar. I was a
poor boy at the time. Do you know what he gave me?"
"What was it, sir?"
"A dollar! What do you think of that for generosity?"
"Well, sir, it wasn't exactly liberal. Did you accept it?"
"No. I told him that I didn't wish to inconvenience him. But I asked
you how much money you supposed I had. I will tell you. In a wallet I
have eleven thousand dollars in bank notes and securities."
"That is a fortune," said Dodger, dazzled at the mention of such a
sum.
"If I had lost it, I have plenty more, but the most serious peril was
to my life. Through your opportune assistance I have escaped without
loss. I fully appreciate the magnitude of the service you have done
me. As an evidence of it, please accept these bills."
He drew from the roll two bills and handed them to Dodger.
The boy, glancing at them mechanically, started in amazement. Each
bill was for five hundred dollars.
"You have given me a thousand dollars!" he gasped.
"I am aware of it. I consider my life worth that, at least. James
Swinton never fails to pay his debts."
"But, sir, a thousand dollars----"
"It's no more than you deserve. When I tell my wife, on my return to
Chicago, about this affair, she will blame me for not giving you
more."
"You seem to belong to a liberal family, sir."
"I detest meanness, and would rather err on the side of liberality.
Now, if agreeable to you, I will order a bottle of champagne, and
solace ourselves for this little incident."
"Thank you, Mr. Swinton, but I have made up my mind not to drink
anything stronger than water. I have tended bar in New York, and what
I have seen has given me a dislike for liquor of any kind."
"You are a sensible young man. You are right, and I won't urge you.
There is my card, and if you ever come to Chicago, call upon me."
"I will, sir."
When Dodger left the Palace Hotel he felt that he was a favorite of
fortune.
It is not always that the money we need is so quickly supplied.
He resolved to return to New York as soon as he could manage it, and
take with him the wife and child of Curtis Waring.
This would cost him about five hundred dollars, and he would have the
same amount left.
Mr. Tucker was reluctant to part with Dodger.
"You are the best assistant I ever had," he said. "I will pay you
twenty dollars a week, if that will induce you to stay."
"I would stay if it were not very important for me to return to New
York, Mr. Tucker. I do not expect to get a place in New York as good."
"If you come back to San Francisco at any time, I will make a place
for you."
"Thank you, sir."
Mrs. Waring was overjoyed when Dodger called upon her and offered to
take her back to New York.
"I shall see Curtis again," she said. "How can I ever thank you?"
But Dodger, though unwilling to disturb her dreams of happiness,
thought it exceedingly doubtful if her husband would be equally glad
to see her.
Chapter XXXV.
The Darkest Day.
When Florence left the employ of Mrs. Leighton she had a few dollars
as a reserve fund. As this would not last long, she at once made an
effort to obtain employment.
She desired another position as governess, and made application in
answer to an advertisement.
Her ladylike manner evidently impressed the lady to whom she applied.
"I suppose you have taught before?" she said.
"Yes, madam."
"In whose family?"
"I taught the daughter of Mrs. Leighton, of West -- Street."
"I have heard of the lady. Of course you are at liberty to refer to
her?"
"Yes, madam," but there was a hesitation in her tone that excited
suspicion.
"Very well; I will call upon her and make inquiries. If you will call
to-morrow morning, I can give you a decisive answer."
Florence fervently hoped that this might prove favorable; but was
apprehensive, and with good reason, it appeared.
When she presented herself the next day, Mrs. Cole said:
"I am afraid, Miss Linden, you will not suit me."
"May I ask why?" Florence inquired, schooling herself to calmness.
"I called on Mrs. Leighton," was the answer. "She speaks well of you
as a teacher, but--she told me some things which make it seem
inexpedient to engage you."
"What did she say of me?"
"That, perhaps, you had better not inquire."
"I prefer to know the worst."
"She said you encouraged the attentions of her nephew, forgetting the
difference in social position, and also that your connections were not
of a sort to recommend you. I admit, Miss Linden, that you are very
ladylike in appearance, but, I can hardly be expected to admit into my
house, in the important position of governess to my child, the
daughter or niece of an apple-woman."
"Did Mrs. Leighton say that I was related to an apple-woman?"
"Yes, Miss Linden. I own I was surprised."
"It is not true, Mrs. Cole."
"You live in the house of such a person, do you not?"
"Yes, she is an humble friend of mine, and has been kind to me."
"You cannot be very fastidious. However, that is your own affair. I am
sorry to disappoint you, Miss Linden, but it will be quite impossible
for me to employ you."
"Then I will bid you good-morning, Mrs. Cole," said Florence, sore at
heart.
"Good-morning. You will, I think, understand my position. If you
applied for a position in one of the public schools, I don't think
that your residence would be an objection."
Florence left the house, sad and despondent. She saw that Mrs.
Leighton, by her unfriendly representations, would prevent her from
getting any opportunity to teach. She must seek some more humble
employment.
"Well, Florence, did you get a place?" asked Mrs. O'Keefe, as she
passed that lady's stand.
"No, Mrs. O'Keefe," answered Florence, wearily.
"And why not? Did the woman think you didn't know enough?"
"She objected to me because I was not living in a fashionable quarter
--at least that was one of her objections."
"I'm sure you've got a nate, clane home, and it looks as nate as wax
all the time."
"It isn't exactly stylish," said Florence, with a faint smile.
"You are, at any rate. What does the woman want, I'd like to know?"
"She doesn't want me. It seems Mrs. Leighton did not speak very highly
of me."
"The trollop! I'd like to give her a box on the ear, drat her
impudence!" said the irate apple-woman. "And what will you be doin'
now?"
"Do you think I can get some sewing to do, Mrs. O'Keefe?"
"Yes, Miss Florence--I'll get you some vests to make; but it's hard
work and poor pay."
"I must take what I can get," sighed Florence. "I cannot choose."
"If you'd only tend an apple-stand, Miss Florence! There's Mrs. Brady
wants to sell out on account of the rheumatics, and I've got a trifle
in the savings bank--enough to buy it. You'd make a dollar a day,
easy."
"It isn't to be thought of, Mrs. O'Keefe. If you will kindly see about
getting me some sewing, I will see how I can get along."
The result was that Mrs. O'Keefe brought Florence in the course of the
day half a dozen vests, for which she was to be paid the munificent
sum of twenty-five cents each.
Florence had very little idea of what she was undertaking.
She was an expert needlewoman, and proved adequate to the work, but
with her utmust industry she could only make one vest in a day, and
that would barely pay her rent.
True, she had some money laid aside on which she could draw, but that
would soon be expended, and then what was to become of her?
"Shure, I won't let you starve, Florence," said the warm-hearted
apple-woman.
"But, Mrs. O'Keefe, I can't consent to live on you."
"And why not? I'm well and strong, and I'm makin' more money than I
nade."
"I couldn't think of it, though I thank you for your kindness."
"Shure, you might write a letter to your uncle, Florence."
"He would expect me, in that case, to consent to a marriage with
Curtis. You wouldn't advise me to do that?"
"No; he's a mane blackguard, and I'd say it to his face."
Weeks rolled by, and Florence began to show the effects of hard work
and confinement.
She grew pale and thin, and her face was habitually sad.
She had husbanded her savings as a governess as closely as she could,
but in spite of all her economy it dwindled till she had none left.
Henceforth, she must depend on twenty-five cents a day, and this
seemed well-nigh impossible.
In this emergency the pawnbroker occurred to her.
She had a variety of nice dresses, and she had also a handsome ring,
given her by her uncle on her last birthday.
This she felt sure must have cost fifty dollars.
It was a trial to part with it, but there seemed to be no alternative.
"If my uncle has withdrawn his affection from me," she said to
herself, "why should I scruple to pawn the ring? It is the symbol of a
love that no longer exists."
So she entered the pawnbrowker's--the first that attracted her
attention--and held out the ring.
"How much will you lend me on this?" she asked, half frightened at
finding herself in such a place.
The pawnbroker examined it carefully. His practiced eye at once
detected its value, but it was not professional to admit this.
"Rings is a drug in the market, young lady," he said. "I've got more
than I know what to do with. I'll give you four--four dollars."
"Four dollars!" repeated Florence, in dismay. "Why, it must have cost
fifty. It was bought in Tiffany's."
"You are mistaken, my dear. Did you buy it yourself there?"
"No, my uncle gave it to me."
"He may have said he paid fifty dollars for it," said the pawnbroker,
wagging his head, "but we know better."
"But what will you give?" asked Florence, desperately.
"I'll give you five dollars, and not a penny more," said the broker,
surveying her distressed face, shrewdly. "You can take it or not."
What could Florence do?
She must have money, and feared that no other pawnbroker would give
her more.
"Make out the ticket, then," she said, wearily, with a sigh.
This was done, and she left the place, half timid, half ashamed, and
wholly discouraged.
But the darkest hour is sometimes nearest the dawn. A great
overwhelming surprise awaited her. She had scarcely left the shop when
a glad voice cried:
"I have found you at last, Florence!"
She looked up and saw--Dodger.
But not the old Dodger. She saw a nicely dressed young gentleman,
larger than the friend she had parted with six months before, with a
brighter, more intelligent, and manly look.
"Dodger!" she faltered.
"Yes, it is Dodger."
"Where did you come from?"
"From San Francisco. But what have you been doing there?"
And Dodger pointed in the direction of the pawnbroker's shop.
"I pawned my ring."
"Then I shall get it back at once. How much did you get on it?"
"Five dollars."
"Give me the ticket, and go in with me."
The pawnbroker was very reluctant to part with the ring, which he made
sure would not be reclaimed; but there was no help for it.
As they emerged into the street, Dodger said: "I've come back to
restore you to your rights, and give Curtis Waring the most
disagreeable surprise he ever had. Come home, and I'll tell you all
about it. I've struck luck, Florence, and you're going to share it."
Chapter XXXVI.
Mrs. O'Keefe In A New Role.
No time was lost in seeing Bolton and arranging a plan of campaign.
Curtis Waring, nearing the accomplishment of his plans, was far from
anticipating impending disaster.
His uncle's health had become so poor, and his strength had been so
far undermined, that it was thought desirable to employ a sick nurse.
An advertisement was inserted in a morning paper, which luckily
attracted the attention of Bolton.
"You must go, Mrs. O'Keefe," he said to the apple-woman. "It is
important that we have some one in the house--some friend of Florence
and the boy--to watch what is going on."
"Bridget O'Keefe is no fool. Leave her to manage."
The result was that among a large number of applicants Mrs. O'Keefe
was selected by Curtis as Mr. Linden's nurse, as she expressed herself
willing to work for four dollars a week, while the lowest outside
demand was seven.
We will now enter the house, in which the last scenes of our story are
to take place.
Mr. Linden, weak and emaciated, was sitting in an easy-chair in his
library.
"How do you feel this morning, uncle?" asked Curtis, entering the
room.
"I am very weak, Curtis. I don't think I shall ever be any better."
"I have engaged a nurse, uncle, as you desired, and I expect her this
morning."
"That is well, Curtis. I do not wish to confine you to my bedside."
"The nurse is below," said Jane, the servant, entering.
"Send her up."
Mrs. O'Keefe entered in the sober attire of a nurse. She dropped a
curtsey.
"Are you the nurse I engaged?" said Curtis.
"Yes, sir."
"Your name, please."
"Mrs. Barnes, sir."
"Have you experience as a nurse?"
"Plenty, sir."
"Uncle, this is Mrs. Barnes, your new nurse. I hope you will find her
satisfactory."
"She looks like a good woman," said Mr. Linden, feebly. "I think she
will suit me."
"Indade, sir, I'll try."
"Uncle," said Curtis, "I have to go downtown. I have some business to
attend to. I leave you in the care of Mrs. Barnes."
"Shure, I'll take care of him, sir."
"Is there anything I can do for you, Mr. Linden?" asked the new nurse,
in a tone of sympathy.
"Can you minister to a mind diseased?"
"I'll take the best care of you, Mr. Linden, but it isn't as if you
had a wife or daughter."
"Ah, that is a sore thought! I have no wife or daughter; but I have a
niece."
"And where is she, sir?"
"I don't know. I drove her from me by my unkindness. I repent
bitterly, but it's now too late."
"And why don't you send for her to come home?"
"I would gladly do so, but I don't know where she is. Curtis has tried
to find her, but in vain. He says she is in Chicago."
"And what should take her to Chicago?"
"He says she is there as a governess in a family."
"By the brow of St. Patrick!" thought Mrs. O'Keefe, "if that Curtis
isn't a natural-born liar. I'm sure she'd come back if you'd send for
her, sir," said she, aloud.
"Do you think so?" asked Linden, eagerly.
"I'm sure of it."
"But I don't know where to send."
"I know of a party that would be sure to find her."
"Who is it?"
"It's a young man. They call him Dodger. If any one can find Miss
Florence, he can."
"You know my niece's name?"
"I have heard it somewhere. From Mr. Waring, I think."
"And you think this young man would agree to go to Chicago and find
her?"
"Yes, sir, I make bold to say he will."
"Tell him to go at once. He will need money. In yonder desk you will
find a picture of my niece and a roll of bills. Give them to him and
send him at once."
"Yes, sir, I will. But if you'll take my advice, you won't say
anything to Mr. Curtis. He might think it foolish."
"True! If your friend succeeds, we'll give Curtis a surprise."
"And a mighty disagreeable one, I'll be bound," soliloquized Mrs.
O'Keefe.
"I think, Mrs. Barnes, I will retire to my chamber, if you will assist
me."
She assisted Mr. Linden to his room, and then returned to the library.
"Mrs. Barnes, there's a young man inquiring for you," said Jane,
entering.
"Send him in, Jane."
The visitor was Dodger, neatly dressed.
"How are things going, Mrs. O'Keefe?" he asked.
"Splendid, Dodger. Here's some money for you."
"What for?"
"You're to go to Chicago and bring back Florence."
"But she isn't there."
"Nivir mind. You're to pretend to go."
"But that won't take money."
"Give it to Florence, then. It's hers by rights. Won't we give Curtis
a surprise? Where's his wife?"
"I have found a comfortable boarding house for her. When had we better
carry out this programme? She's very anxious to see her husband."
"The more fool she. Kape her at home and out of his sight, or there's
no knowin' what he'll do. And, Dodger, dear, kape an eye on the
apple-stand. I mistrust Mrs. Burke that's runnin' it."
"I will. Does the old gentleman seem to be very sick?"
"He's wake as a rat. Curtis would kill him soon if we didn't
interfere. But we'll soon circumvent him, the snake in the grass! Miss
Florence will soon come to her own, and Curtis Waring will be out in
the cold."
"The most I have against him is that he tried to marry Florence when
he had a wife already."
"He's as bad as they make 'em, Dodger. It won't be my fault if Mr.
Linden's eyes are not opened to his wickedness."
Chapter XXXVII.
The Diplomacy Of Mrs. O'Keefe.
Mrs. O'Keefe was a warm-hearted woman, and the sad, drawn face of Mr.
Linden appealed to her pity.
"Why should I let the poor man suffer when I can relieve him?" she
asked herself.
So the next morning, after Curtis had, according to his custom, gone
downtown, being in the invalid's sick chamber, she began to act in a
mysterious manner. She tiptoed to the door, closed it and approached
Mr. Linden's bedside with the air of one about to unfold a strange
story.
"Whist now," she said, with her finger on her lips.
"What is the matter?" asked the invalid, rather alarmed.
"Can you bear a surprise, sir?"
"Have you any bad news for me?"
"No; it's good news, but you must promise not to tell Curtis."
"Is it about Florence? Your messenger can hardly have reached
Chicago."
"He isn't going there, sir."
"But you promised that he should," said Mr. Linden, disturbed.
"I'll tell you why, sir. Florence is not in Chicago."
"I--I don't understand. You said she was there."
"Begging your pardon, sir, it was Curtis that said so, though he knew
she was in New York."
"But what motive could he have had for thus misrepresenting matters?"
"He doesn't want you to take her back."
"I can't believe you, Mrs. Barnes. He loves her, and wants to marry
her."
"He couldn't marry her if she consented to take him."
"Why not? Mrs. Barnes, you confuse me."
"I won't deceive you as he has done. There's rason in plinty. He's
married already."
"Is this true?" demanded Mr. Linden, in excitement.
"It's true enough; more by token, to-morrow, whin he's out, his wife
will come here and tell you so herself."
"But who are you who seem to know so much about my family?"
"I'm a friend of the pore girl you've driven from the house, because
she would not marry a rascally spalpeen that's been schemin' to get
your property into his hands."
"You're a friend of Florence? Where is she?"
"She's in my house, and has been there ever since she left her home."
"Is she--well?"
"As well as she can be whin she's been workin' her fingers to the bone
wid sewin' to keep from starvin'."
"My God! what have I done?"
"You've let Curtis Waring wind you around his little finger--that's
what you've done, Mr. Linden."
"How soon can I see Florence?"
"How soon can you bear it?"
"The sooner the better."
"Then it'll be to-morrow, I'm thinkin', that is if you won't tell
Curtis."
"No, no; I promise."
"I'll manage everything, sir. Don't worry now."
Mr. Linden's face lost its anxious look--so that when, later in the
day, Curtis looked into the room he was surprised.
"My uncle looks better," he said.
"Yes, sir," answered the nurse. "I've soothed him like."
"Indeed! You seem to be a very accomplished nurse."
"Faith, that I am, sir, though it isn't I that should say it."
"May I ask how you soothed him?" inquired Curtis, anxiously.
"I told him that Miss Florence would soon be home."
"I do not think it right to hold out hopes that may prove
ill-founded."
"I know what I am about, Mr. Curtis."
"I dare say you understand your business, Mrs. Barnes, but if my uncle
should be disappointed, I am afraid the consequences will be
lamentable."
"Do you think he'll live long, sir?"
Curtis shrugged his shoulders.
"It is very hard to tell. My uncle is a very feeble man."
"And if he dies, I suppose the property goes to you?"
"I suppose so."
"But where does Florence come in?"
"It seems to me, Mrs. Barnes, that you take a good deal of interest in
our family affairs," said Curtis, suspiciously.
"That's true, sir. Why shouldn't I take an interest in a nice
gentleman like you?"
Curtis smiled.
"I am doing my best to find Florence. Then our marriage will take
place, and it matters little to whom the property is left."
"But I thought Miss Florence didn't care to marry you?"
"It is only because she thinks cousins ought not to marry. It's a
foolish fancy, and she'll get over it."
"Thrue for you, sir. My first husband was my cousin, and we always
agreed, barrin' an occasional fight----"
"I don't think Florence and I will ever fight, Mrs. Barnes."
"What surprises me, Mr. Curtis, is that a nice-lookin' gentleman like
you hasn't been married before."
Curtis eyed her keenly, but her face told him nothing.
"I never saw one I wanted to marry till my cousin grew up," he said.
"I belave in marryin', meself. I was first married at sivinteen."
"How long ago was that, Mrs. Barnes?"
"It's long ago, Mr. Curtis. I'm an old woman now. I was thirty-five
last birthday."
Curtis came near laughing outright, for he suspected--what was true--
that the nurse would never see her fiftieth birthday again.
"Then you are just my age," he said.
"If I make him laugh he won't suspect nothing," soliloquized the wily
nurse. "That's a pretty big lie, even for me."
