the same. I went from one factory to another, but this man followed
me. When we met he had the assurance to demand another sum of money
in payment for his silence. I had no money to give him, nor would I
have done so if I had, knowing his treachery. The result was that
again I was discharged. A year ago I went to Seneca, and obtained
employment from Mr. Wentworth. Month after month passed and I began
to congratulate myself, when one unlucky day Haynes again made his
appearance. He tried to extort money from me, but though I had some, I
refused to bribe him. He went to Mr. Wentworth and denounced me. I was
discharged unceremoniously, though I told him my story and appealed to
his humanity. Then at last, in my despair and anger, I lay in wait for
Haynes, and gave him an unmerciful beating until he roared for mercy.”
“Good! good!” exclaimed the Englishman, clapping his hands, “you served
the scoundrel right.”
“I always think of it with pleasure, though I am not a revengeful man.”
“Were you arrested?” asked Gerald.
“Yes, but I escaped with a fine which I paid gladly. I am glad to say
when it got out that Haynes had dogged me so persistently none of the
men would associate with him, and he was obliged to leave the factory.”
“I wish I had been Mr. Wentworth,” said Brooke. “I would have retained
you in my employ even if you had been guilty in the first place. I
don’t believe in condemning a man utterly for one offense.”
“I wish more men were as charitable as yourself,” said John Carter, for
this, as he afterward informed Gerald, was his name.
“But how did you happen to come to Colorado?” asked Noel Brooke.
“I was tired of persecution. In fact I had been employed in so many
factories, all of which were now closed against me, that I decided to
earn a living some other way. I had a little money left, and I traveled
westward. I came to Colorado because it was a new country, and there
must be something here for an industrious man to do. It has been rather
hard on poor Oscar,” he added with an affectionate glance at his son.
“For latterly my money gave out, and we have more than once gone
hungry, as we would have done to-day but for your kindness.”
He was about to rise and leave the cabin but Gerald stopped him.
“Wait a minute, Mr. Carter,” he said. “I have an arrangement to
propose.”
Carter regarded him with a glance of inquiry.
“I have made an engagement to travel with my friend, Mr. Brooke,”
Gerald went on, “and this cabin will be untenanted. If you are willing
to occupy it you are welcome to do so. You will be sure to find some
employment, and if not you can hunt and fish. What do you say?”
“What can I say except that I am grateful? I am not afraid but that
I can make a living for myself and Oscar, and I shall not live in
constant fear that Clifton Haynes will find me out and expose me.”
“I wish he would happen along about this time,” said Noel Brooke. “I
should like nothing better than to get a chance at the fellow. One
thrashing isn’t enough for him.”
“I think you would make thorough work with him, Mr. Brooke,” said
Gerald laughing.
“I would try to at all events,” rejoined the Englishman.
“If you want any certificate attesting your prowess you have only to
refer to Jake Amsden.”
“Jake Amsden,” exclaimed John Carter in surprise. “Why, he is the man
for whose crime I suffered. He was the man who stole the wallet and put
it in my trunk to incriminate me.”
CHAPTER XIV.
JAKE AMSDEN TURNS OVER A NEW LEAF.
NOW it was the turn of Gerald and Mr. Brooke to look surprised.
“Why, I thrashed Jake Amsden within an hour,” said the tourist, “for an
attack upon Gerald.”
“He doesn’t seem to have improved then,” said Carter. “Does he live
hereabouts?”
“Yes.”
“Is he in business in this neighborhood?”
“His chief business,” answered Gerald, “is to get drunk, and when he
can’t raise money any other way he steals it.”
“Evidently he is the same man. He is the cause of all my misfortunes.”
“Here he is coming back!” said Gerald suddenly.
“Good!” exclaimed the tourist. “I have some business with him.”
Jake had evidently visited Pete Johnson’s saloon again, judging from
his flushed face and unsteady gait. Still he was in a condition to get
around.
“Stay in the cabin till I call you!” whispered Noel Brooke to Carter.
“Well,” he said, turning to meet Amsden, “have you come back for
another boxing lesson?”
“No, squire,” answered Jake.
“What then?”
“I thought you might like a guide, considerin’ this is your first visit
to Colorado. Don’t you want to go up Pike’s Peak?”
“I have engaged Gerald here to go about with me.”
“He’s a boy. He don’t know nothin’ of the country.”
“He will satisfy me as a companion better than you.”
“If you’re goin’ away, Gerald,” said Amsden with unabashed assurance,
“won’t you let me live in the cabin till you come back?”
“It has been engaged by another tenant,” answered Gerald.
“Who is it? It isn’t Pete Johnson, is it?”
“No, I don’t propose to let my cabin for a saloon.”
“You’re right, boy. You’d better let me have it.”
“But I told you that it was already promised to another party.”
“Who is it?”
“An old acquaintance of yours.”
At a signal from Noel Brooke John Carter came out, leading Oscar by the
hand. He looked earnestly at Jake Amsden. It was the first time in many
years that he had seen the man who was the prime mover in the events
that had brought about his financial ruin. He would hardly have known
Jake, so much had his appearance suffered from habitual intemperance.
Jake Amsden on his part scanned Carter with curious perplexity.
“Do I know you?” he asked.
“You knew me once. I have good reason to remember you,” answered John
Carter gravely.
Something in his voice recalled him to Amsden.
“Why, it’s Carter,” he said, “John Carter. How are you, Carter, old
fellow? It does me good to set eyes on an old friend.”
Carter was unprepared for this cordial welcome, and when Jake Amsden
approached with hand extended, he put his own behind his back.
“I can’t take your hand, Jake,” he said. “You’ve done me too much harm.”
“Oh, you mean that old affair,” said Jake in an airy tone. “I did
act meanly, that’s a fact, but we’re both older now. Let bygones be
bygones. It’s all over now.”
“It isn’t all over. That false accusation of yours has blighted my
life. It has driven me from factory to factory, and finally driven me
out here in the hope that I might begin a new life where it would no
longer be in my way.”
“I’m sorry for that, Carter,” said Jake Amsden. “’Pon my soul, I am. I
know it was a mean trick I played upon you, but it was either you or I.”
“And you ruined this man’s reputation to save your own?” said Noel
Brooke sternly.
“I didn’t think much about it, squire, I really didn’t,” said Jake.
“You see I run in a hole, and I was ready to do anything to get out.”
“It was the act of a scoundrel, Amsden. There is only one thing to do.”
“What is it? Take another lickin’?”
“No, that wouldn’t mend matters. You must sign a confession that you
committed the theft of which Carter was unjustly accused, so that he
may have this to show whenever the old charge is brought up against him
hereafter.”
“I’ll do it, squire. I’d have done it long ago if I’d known.”
“It is better late than not at all. Come into the cabin, both of you.”
His orders were obeyed, and after asking questions as to details he
wrote out a confession exonerating John Carter and laying the blame on
the right party. Gerald furnished him with pen, ink and paper.
“Now,” he said, when the document was completed, “I want you, Jake
Amsden, to sign this and Gerald and I will subscribe our names as
witnesses.”
“All right, squire, I’ll do it. You must not mind the writin’ for I
haven’t handled a pen for so long that I have almost forgotten how to
write.”
Jake Amsden affixed his signature in a large scrawling hand, and the
two witnesses subscribed after him.
“Now, Mr. Carter,” said Noel Brooke, as he handed him the paper,
“keep this carefully, and whenever that scoundrel who has made it
his business to persecute you engages again in the same work you can
show this document, and it will be a satisfactory answer to his base
charges.”
“I thank you, Mr. Brooke,” said Carter in a deep voice. “You cannot
conceive what a favor you have done me. I feel that a great burden
has been lifted from my life, and that it has passed out of the shadow
which has obscured it for so long. Now I shall be able to leave Oscar
an untarnished name!”
During the day Carter made a trip to a point two miles distant where
he had left his modest luggage, and returned to take possession of the
cabin. In the afternoon Jake Amsden made another call, and informed him
that he could obtain employment at a lumber camp not far distant.
“Are you going to work there, Mr. Amsden?” asked Gerald.
“I am offered employment,” answered Jake, “but my health won’t allow me
to do hard work, so I gave my chance to Carter.”
Gerald smiled, for he understood this was not the real objection. Jake
Amsden was naturally stronger and more robust than John Carter, but he
had for years led a life of idleness, and the mere thought of working
all day fatigued him.
John Carter felt relieved at the prospect of obtaining work and
grateful to the man whom for years he had regarded as his enemy for his
agency in securing it.
“What pay will I receive?” he asked.
“Four dollars a day.”
“Why, that is twice as much as I was paid at the factory,” he said.
“Now I can see my way clear to support Oscar and myself comfortably.
Jake Amsden, I never expected to feel grateful to you, but if I get
this job I will forget the past and feel kindly towards you from
henceforth.”
“It’s all right, Carter, old boy. I ain’t all black, you see.”
But there were certainly some pretty dark spots still on his character,
not the least of which was his compact with Bradley Wentworth
concerning the papers in Gerald’s possession, which the crafty Amsden
had by no means forgotten.
CHAPTER XV.
BRADLEY WENTWORTH’S MORNING MAIL.
BRADLEY WENTWORTH lived in quite the most pretentious house in Seneca.
It was within five minutes’ walk of the huge brick factory from which
he drew his income. All that money could buy within reasonable limits
was his. Handsome furniture, fine engravings, expensive paintings,
a stately carriage and handsome horses, contributed to make life
comfortable and desirable.
But there is generally something to mar the happiness of the most
favored. Mr. Wentworth had but one child—Victor—whom he looked upon
as his successor and heir. He proposed to send him to college, partly
to secure educational advantages, but partly also because he thought it
would give him an opportunity to make friends in high social position.
He had reached that age when a man begins to live for those who are to
come after him.
But Victor unfortunately took different views of life from his father.
He did not care much for a liberal education, and he selected his
companions from among those who, like himself, enjoyed a good time.
He was quite aware that his father was rich, and he thought himself
justified in spending money freely.
Victor was in attendance at the classical academy of Virgil McIntire,
LL.D., an institute of high rank in the town of Ilium, about fifty
miles from Seneca. He had been there about two years, having previously
studied at home under a private tutor. Being a busy man his father had
been able to visit the school but twice, and had but a vague idea as to
the progress which his son was making.
Five days after he returned home from Colorado he received a letter
from Dr. McIntire, the material portion of which is subjoined:
 “I regret to say that your son Victor is not making as good use of
 his time and advantages as I could desire. I have hitherto given you
 some reason to hope that he would be prepared for admission to Yale
 College at the next summer examination, but I greatly fear now that
 he will not be ready. He is a boy of good parts, and with moderate
 application he could satisfy you and myself in this respect; but he is
 idle and wastes his time, and seems more bent on enjoying himself than
 on making progress in his studies. I have spoken with him seriously,
 but I am afraid that my words have produced very little effect. It may
 be well for you to remonstrate with him, and try to induce him to take
 sensible views of life. At any rate, as I don’t want you to cherish
 hopes that are doomed to disappointment, I have deemed it my duty to
 lay before you the facts of the case.
  “Yours respectfully,
  “VIRGIL MCINTIRE.”
Bradley Wentworth received and read this letter in bitterness of spirit.
“Why will that boy thwart me?” he asked himself. “I have mapped out a
useful and honorable career for him. I am ready to provide liberally
for all his wants—to supply him with fine clothes as good, I dare say,
as are worn by the Astors and Vanderbilts, and all I ask in return is,
that he will study faithfully and prepare himself for admission to
college next summer. I did not fare like him when I was a boy. I had no
rich father to provide for my wants, but was compelled to work for a
living. How gladly would I have toiled had I been situated as he is! He
is an ungrateful boy!”
Bradley Wentworth was not altogether justified in his estimate of
himself as a boy. He had been very much like Victor, except that he
was harder and less amiable. He had worked, to be sure, but it was
not altogether because he liked it, but principally because he knew
that he must. He, like Victor, had exceeded his income, and it was
in consequence of this that he had forged the check for which he had
induced his fellow-clerk, Warren Lane, to own himself responsible. He
forgot all this, however, and was disposed to judge his son harshly.
By the same mail with Doctor McIntire’s letter came the following
letter from Victor:
 “DEAR FATHER:—I meant to write you last week but was too busy”—”Not
 with your studies, I’ll be bound,” interpolated his father—“besides
 there isn’t much to write about here. It is a fearfully slow
 place”—“You wouldn’t find it so if you spent your time in study,”
 reflected Mr. Wentworth—“I don’t enjoy Latin and Greek very much,
 I don’t see what good they are ever going to do a fellow. You never
 studied Latin or Greek, and I am sure you have been very successful
 in life. I have an intimate friend here, Arthur Grigson, who is going
 to spend next year in traveling. He will go all over the United States
 to begin with, including the Pacific coast. I wish you would let me
 go with him. I am sure I would learn more in that way than I shall
 from the stuffy books I am studying here under that old mummy, Dr.
 McIntire. Arthur thinks he shall be ready to start in about six weeks.
 Please give your consent to my going with him by return of mail, so
 that I may begin to get ready. He thinks we can travel a year for two
 thousand dollars apiece.
  “Your affectionate son,
  “VICTOR.”
Bradley Wentworth frowned ominously when he read this epistle.
“What a cheerful sort of letter for a father to receive,” he said to
himself, crushing the pages in his strong hands. “Victor has all the
advantages that money can command, and a brilliant prospect for the
future if he will only act in accordance with my wishes, and yet he
is ready to start off at a tangent and roam round the world with some
scapegrace companion. I wish he were more like Lane’s boy—I don’t
like him, for he is obstinate and headstrong, and utterly unreasonable
in his demands upon me, but he is steady and correct in his habits, and
if he were in Victor’s place would never give me any uneasiness.”
Gerald would have been surprised if he had heard this tribute from the
lips of his recent visitor, but he was not likely to know the real
opinion of the man who had declared himself his enemy.
Bradley Wentworth, continuing the examination of his letters, found
another bearing the Ilium postmark. It was addressed in an almost
illegible scrawl and appeared to be written by a person of defective
education. It was to this effect:
 “DEAR SIR:—Your son Victor, at least he says you are his father, and
 have plenty of money, has run up a bill of sixty-seven dollars for
 livery at my stable, and I think it is about time the bill was paid. I
 am a poor man and I can’t afford to lose so much money. I have already
 waited till I am tired, but your son’s promises ain’t worth much, and
 I am obliged to come to you for payment.
 “I shall take it as a favor if you will send me a check at once for
 the money, as I have some bills coming due next week. I don’t mind
 trusting your son if I am sure of my money in the end, and if it
 isn’t convenient for you to pay right off, you can send me your note
 on thirty days, as I am sure a gentleman like you would pay it when
 due.
  “Yours respectfully,
  “SETH KENDALL.”
This letter made Mr. Wentworth very angry. It is hard to tell whether
he was more angry with his son or with the proprietor of the livery
stable. He answered the latter first.
“MR. SETH KENDALL:—I have received your letter, and must express my
surprise at your trusting my son, knowing well that he is a minor, and
that I have not authorized his running up a bill with you. It would
serve you right to withhold all payment, but I won’t go so far as that.
Cut your demand in two, and send me a receipt in full for that sum, and
I will forward you a check. I never give a note for so small an amount.
Hereafter, if you are foolish enough to trust Victor, you must run your
own risk, as I shall decline to pay any bill that may be presented.
  “BRADLEY WENTWORTH.”
 Mr. Wentworth next wrote to Victor a letter from which a paragraph is
 extracted:
 “I admire your audacity in asking me to let you leave school and go
 around the world with some scapegrace companion. You say it will only
 cost two thousand dollars. That probably seems to you a very small sum
 of money. When I was several years older than yourself I was working
 for seventy-five dollars a month or nine hundred dollars a year. It is
 evident that you do not understand the value of money. You speak of me
 as a rich man, and I admit that you are correct in doing so, but I do
 not propose to have you make ducks and drakes of my money.
 “I may mention, by the way, that a livery stable keeper, who signs
 himself Seth Kendall, has sent me a bill run up by you for sixty-seven
 dollars. I have written him that I didn’t authorize your running up
 such a bill, and that he must be content with fifty per cent of it, or
 else go unpaid. Hereafter I forbid your running up bills in Illium of
 any description. Bear this in mind.
  “Your father,
  “BRADLEY WENTWORTH.”
A week later Mr. Wentworth received this telegram from Illium.
 “Your son Victor has disappeared, leaving no traces of his
 destination. Particulars by mail.
  “VIRGIL MCINTIRE.”
CHAPTER XVI.
A LETTER FROM JAKE AMSDEN.
ON receipt of the despatch reproduced at the close of the last chapter
Mr. Wentworth started immediately for Ilium, and had an interview with
Dr. McIntire.
“When did my son leave Ilium?” he asked.
“Two days ago, probably. He was not at recitations, but I received a
note saying he was sick with the influenza. This seemed natural, for
I have myself been suffering from the same malady, and therefore my
suspicions were not excited. When the next morning Victor also absented
himself I sent around to his boarding-house, and learned that he and a
school friend of his—Arthur Grigson—had not been seen for twenty-four
hours. Their trunks were left, but each had taken a valise, filled with
clothing, as may be presumed, for the bureau drawers were empty. It is
clear that the flight was premeditated. Can you furnish me with any
clew, Mr. Wentworth, to the probable cause of this escapade?”
“Only this, that Victor in his last letter asked permission to go off
on a trip with this boy, Arthur Grigson. He wished to leave school and
travel for a year.”
“That explains it. You refused, I presume?”
“Yes, emphatically.”
“Your son then has gone without leave.”
“It would seem so. What is the character of this Arthur Grigson?”
“He is from Syracuse, in New York State. I believe he has no immediate
family, but is under the charge of a guardian, who lets him do pretty
much as he pleases. Had your son any money, do you think?”
“I had just sent him fifty dollars to settle his board bill for the
month, with a margin for his own personal use.”
“Probably he used the money to travel with. It may be well to inquire
at his boarding-house if he has paid his board.”
This Mr. Wentworth did, and ascertained that the bill was still unpaid.
He returned to the principal with this information.
“What would you advise me to do?” he inquired in some perplexity.
“I will advise you, but you may not be willing to adopt my advice.”
“At any rate I shall be glad to have your views, for I am in great
doubt.”
“I would make no effort to recover the fugitive.”
“What!” exclaimed Bradley Wentworth startled, “would you have me
abandon my only son to his own devices?”
“Only for a time. You might, of course, secure the services of a
detective to pursue him, but that would be expensive and probably would
do no good.”
“But I don’t like to return home without an effort to recover Victor.”
“Listen to me, Mr. Wentworth. How old is your son?”
“Seventeen.”
“Then he ought to be able to look out for himself in a measure. I
predict that it won’t be long before you hear from him.”
“What leads you to think so?”
“Victor left school with only fifty dollars in his pocket. That sum
won’t last long. His companion no doubt had more, for his guardian
foolishly supplied him with money very liberally. But, at any rate,
it won’t be long before the two boys will be at the end of their
resources. Then the natural thing will be for each to write for money
to get home. When you receive your son’s letter you will, of course,
learn where he is, and can seek him out and take him home.”
“Your advice is most judicious, Dr. McIntire,” said Mr. Wentworth
brightening up. “I shall adopt it. I shan’t be sorry if the young
scapegrace gets into trouble and suffers for his folly.”
“I hope, Mr. Wentworth, you don’t blame me in the matter.”
“No, Dr. McIntire, I blame no one but the boy himself. Your suggestions
have entirely changed my intentions. I did propose to advertise a
reward to any one who would send me information of the missing boy, but
now I shall do nothing of the kind. I will trust to time and the want
of money to restore Victor to his senses.”
Mr. Wentworth settled all Victor’s debts in Ilium, and when his task
was finished returned to Seneca.
“The boy needn’t think I am going to make a fuss about him. It would be
making him of altogether too much importance. I think I can afford to
wait quite as well as he can.”
“Did you see Mr. Victor?” inquired the housekeeper when he returned
home.
“No, Mrs. Bancroft.”
“I thought you went to Ilium, sir.”
“So I did.”
“And did not call on Mr. Victor?”
“Victor isn’t at Ilium. He has gone away on a little journey with a
school companion.”
Mrs. Bancroft looked surprised.
“Will he be gone long?” she ventured to inquire.
“It is not decided,” answered Wentworth. From his manner the
housekeeper understood that he did not care to be interrogated further.
She would like to have asked where Victor had gone, for she felt some
affection for the boy whom she had known since he wore knickerbockers,
but she reflected that when letters were received the postmark would
reveal what she desired to know. Accordingly she waited eagerly, but so
far as she could learn no letters came from the absent boy. She grew
anxious, but Bradley Wentworth seemed calm and imperturbable.
“Master Victor must be all right,” she concluded, “or his father would
look anxious.”
One morning Mrs. Bancroft found in the mail a letter dated Gulchville,
Colorado, but the address was evidently written by an uneducated
person not much in the habit of holding the pen. It couldn’t be from
Victor, whose handwriting was very good, but Mrs. Bancroft reflected in
alarm that he might be sick and unable to write for himself, and had
employed an illiterate amanuensis.
She looked closely at Mr. Wentworth when he read the letter at the
breakfast table. He seemed surprised, but that was the only emotion
which the housekeeper could detect.
He laid the letter down without a word, having read it apparently with
some difficulty.
“I beg your pardon, Mr. Wentworth,” said Mrs. Bancroft, “but does the
letter give any news of Master Victor?”
“No; what should make you think it did, Mrs. Bancroft?”
“I noticed that it was postmarked in Colorado.”
“True, but I don’t expect Victor to go so far, I have acquaintances in
Colorado.”
That was the only information vouchsafed to Mrs. Bancroft.
“I’m a poor woman,” she said to herself, “but I’d freely give ten
dollars to know just where Master Victor is. I’m afraid he’s a little
wild, and don’t like study, but I haven’t forgotten what a nice
little boy he was, and how he used to kiss the old housekeeper. He’s
got a good heart, has Victor. It’s very mysterious his going away so
sudden-like. Mr. Wentworth evidently doesn’t want me to know where he
is. Maybe he’s sent him to one of them strict military schools, where
he’ll be ruled with a rod of iron. I only wish I could see him for just
five minutes.”
The mysterious letter (not to keep the reader in doubt) was written
by our old acquaintance Jake Amsden, and we will reproduce it here,
correcting the orthography, which deviated considerably from the
standards set by the best writers.
  “MR. WENTWORTH,
 DEAR SIR:—I think you will be interested to know that the boy, Gerald
 Lane, has gone away from Gulchville. I don’t know where he has gone,
 but he went with an Englishman named Brooke or Brooks. I think the
 Englishman is going to travel round Colorado, and has taken Gerald as
 a guide. He would have done a good deal better to take me, for Gerald
 is only a kid, and doesn’t know much about the State, while I have
 traveled all over it. Oh, I almost forgot to say that he has let his
 cabin to a Mr. Carter, whom I used to know a good many years ago.
 That shows he means to come back again. When he does come back I will
 let you know.
 “I hope you will consider this letter worth five dollars for I am very
 short of money and times are so hard that I can’t get anything to do.
  “Yours to command,
  “JAKE AMSDEN, ESQ.”
Why Mr. Amsden signed himself Esq. is not altogether clear. As he had
expressed a hope to go to Congress some day he perhaps wanted to keep
up his dignity.
Mr. Wentworth returned the following answer to this letter:
  “JAKE AMSDEN,
 “I am glad to receive information about Gerald Lane. I enclose five
 dollars. When you hear anything more about him, particularly when he
 returns, write me again.
  “BRADLEY WENTWORTH.”
He did not, however, address this to Jake Amsden, Esq., rather to the
disappointment of his gifted correspondent. But Jake found substantial
consolation in the five dollars enclosed, which soon found its way into
the coffers of Pete Johnson.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE BACKWOODS HOTEL.
THREE weeks later Noel Brooke and Gerald, after a long day’s ride,
halted their horses in front of a rude, one-story dwelling at the foot
of a precipitous hill in Western Colorado.
“I hope this is a hotel, Gerald,” said the tourist. “I am tired and
hungry.”
“So am I. We have had a rough ride to-day.”
“No doubt our poor horses think so,” went on Brooke, gently stroking
the neck of his patient steed. The weary animal signified the pleasure
which the caress gave him, and turning his head looked at his rider
with almost human intelligence.
“Shall I dismount and inquire, Mr. Brooke?” asked Gerald.
“Yes, if you please.”
Gerald knocked on the door, which after a slight delay, was opened by a
tall, gaunt woman attired in a soiled calico dress which hung limply
about her thin and bony figure.
“Madam,” said Gerald, lifting his hat with quite unnecessary
politeness, for the woman before him knew nothing of social
observances, “is this a hotel?”
“Well,” drawled the woman, “we sometimes put up travelers here.”
“I am glad to hear it. My friend and I have ridden far to-day, and
would like to have supper and a bed.”
“That’ll be a dollar apiece,” said the woman abruptly.
“We are willing to pay it; and can we get some provision for our
horses?”
“This ain’t no horse tavern, but you can tie ’em to a tree and let ’em
forage for themselves.”
“That will do,” answered Gerald. “Mr. Brooke,” he added, “this lady
consents to entertain us.”
“I shall esteem it a favor,” said Noel Brooke, alighting from his horse.
“Did you tell him what I charged?” asked the backwoods landlady.
“We are to pay a dollar each,” explained Gerald, turning to his
companion.
“That is satisfactory,” said the tourist.
“You may give it to me now,” said the new landlady with commendable
caution.
“Just as you please, madam.”
Noel Brooke took out a large wallet that seemed well filled with bills,
and selecting a two-dollar note passed it over.
The landlady extended her hand eagerly, and taking the bill examined
it minutely, and finally, as if satisfied with her scrutiny, thrust it
into a probable pocket in the interior recesses of her dress. She was
evidently fond of money, judging from her manner, and Gerald noticed
that she fixed a covetous look on the large and well-filled wallet from
which Mr. Brooke had selected the bank bill. It gave him a momentary
feeling of uneasiness, but he reflected that there was little danger
from a solitary woman, and did not mention his feeling to the tourist.
“What do you want for supper?” asked the woman in a quick, jerky way.
“Almost anything, provided it is hearty and there is enough of it,
madam.”
“I’ve got some antelope steak and corn cakes, and I’ll boil some
potatoes if you want ’em.”
“That will do admirably. But where did you get antelope meat? You
didn’t shoot the animal yourself?”
“No, my man shot him.”
That settled the question that had arisen in Gerald’s mind. The woman
had a husband.
“I might have known that you didn’t shoot him yourself.”
“And maybe you’d be mistaken. I’ve dropped more’n one fine antelope, if
I am a woman—Bess, bring me my rifle.”
Bess, undoubtedly the woman’s daughter, was quite a contrast to her
thin, bony mother, for, though not over the average height of women,
she would easily have tipped the scales at a hundred and eighty
pounds. She had a round, fat face, rather vacant in expression, but
good-natured, and in that respect much more attractive than her
mother’s. She brought out a large rifle, which her mother took from her
and raised to her shoulder in fine, sportsmanlike fashion.
“Please don’t mistake me for antelope, madam,” said Noel Brooke hastily.
This excited the risibilities of Bess, who broke into a loud and noisy
fit of laughter.
“What yer cacklin’ at, Bess?” demanded her mother.
“No, I won’t shoot yer,” she added, turning to Brooke. “You wouldn’t be
half so good eatin’ as an antelope.”
Here Bess went off into another fit of laughter, in which Gerald and
his companion joined, for the girl’s evident enjoyment was contagious.
“I am glad to hear that, madam.”
“What do you call me madam for?” inquired the woman suspiciously.
“Because I don’t know your name.”
“My name’s Sal Peters.”
“I shall remember, Mrs. Peters.”
“Bess, you can go and tell the man where to tie his hoss.”
The girl led the way to the rear of the building, where about a hundred
feet back was a sapling with a long rope attached to it.
“Hitch your hoss on to that,” said she. “And there’s another for the
young chap.”
Gerald smiled at this designation, and availed himself of the
information.
“You can set down anywhere, and when supper’s ready I’ll shout.”
“Thank you, Miss Peters,” said the tourist with an amused smile.
But Bess seemed still more amused at being called Miss Peters.
“Oh, I shall bust with laughing, I shall!” she giggled. “Miss Peters!
Oh, ain’t you funny, though?”
“Is there any place to wash?” asked Gerald, looking at his dust-soiled
hands.
Bess pointed to a little rill of water that flowed and trickled down
the hillside, and which Gerald had not yet observed.
“Thank you!”
“Towels are apparently unknown in this wilderness,” said Brooke, after
Bess had gone back to the house.
“And soap, too, I expect.”
“A little extra rubbing will make up for the last, and our
handkerchiefs may do as a substitute for the former. This seems a
primitive sort of place.”
Gerald admired the ease with which Mr. Brooke, who had undoubtedly been
brought up in the lap of luxury, adapted himself to the accommodations
of the wilderness. The young man, after refreshing himself with an
ablution, threw himself on the grass, and said contentedly: “It seems
good to rest after our long ride.”
“Yes, Mr. Brooke, that is the way I feel.”
“To tell you the truth, Gerald, I was afraid we might have to camp out
in the woods, and go to bed without our supper.”
“Our hotel isn’t exactly first class.”
“No, but if we get a plain supper and a comfortable night’s rest it
ought to satisfy us. If I cared to stop at first-class hotels I would
have remained in the larger cities. But I like better, for a time
at least, the freedom of the woods, even if it carries with it some
personal sacrifices and privations.”
“I have been thinking, Mr. Brooke, that my duties as private secretary
are not very laborious.”
“True, Gerald,” answered the tourist smiling. “In fact I have no use
for a private secretary as such, but I wanted a companion, and you
are worth more to me in that capacity than a college graduate whose
acquirements would be much greater.”
“But, Mr. Brooke, it doesn’t seem to me that I am earning the very
liberal salary you are paying me.”
“Not perhaps by your labors as secretary, but your company I rate
higher than this.”
“Thank you, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald, gratified by this evidence of
appreciation.
“So that you needn’t feel any compunction at accepting your salary.”
“I know you mean what you say, and I shall hereafter feel easy on that
score. I wonder what would have been my future if you had not made your
appearance.”
“You would have got along somehow. You are a clever boy, one of those
that get on. There is one thing I reproach myself for, however.”
“What is that, Mr. Brooke?”
“I have taken you away from the congenial society of Jake Amsden.”
Gerald laughed.
“It is true,” he said, “but I will try to find compensation in yours.”
Noel Brooke rose and made a low bow.
“Really,” he said, “I can’t remember when I received such a compliment
before.”
At this moment Bess came out of the cabin and called out “Supper’s
ready, you fellers!”
“And we ‘fellers’ are ready for it,” said Noel Brooke rising briskly.
“Come along, Gerald, the inner man and the inner boy must be
replenished.”
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE PETERS FAMILY.
“SET right up there!” said Mrs. Peters, pointing to a table which was
backed up against the wall with one leaf extended.
The antelope steak emitted a delicious odor to our hungry travelers,
and they did not mind the absence of a table-cloth and napkins. These
would have seemed out of place in this backwoods hotel.
In addition to the antelope meat there were corn cakes as promised and
cups of coffee which had already been poured out.
“Mrs. Peters,” said Brooke, “you have given us a supper fit for a king.”
“I don’t know about no kings,” said the bony landlady. “I’ve heerd of
’em, but don’t take much stock in ’em. I don’t believe they’re any
better than any other folks.”
“I am not personally acquainted with any, but if I were I am sure they
would relish your cooking.”
“You’re monstrous polite,” said Mrs. Peters, her grim features relaxing
somewhat, “but I reckon I can cook a little.”
“And your daughter, no doubt, understands cooking also.”
“No, she don’t. She don’t seem to have no gift that way.”
“That’s a mistake,” said Brooke gravely. “What will she do when she is
married and has a home of her own?”
“Oh, how you talk!” exclaimed the delighted Bess. “Who’d think of
marrying me?”
“I think, Miss Peters, any one who married you would get his money’s
worth.”
“Are you married?” asked Bess in an insinuating tone.
“I believe I am spoken for,” answered Brooke hastily, for it seemed
clear that he would not have to sue in vain for the hand of the plump
young lady, “but my friend here, Mr. Lane, is single.” Gerald looked
alarmed, but was relieved when Bess said, “He’s only a boy. He ain’t
old enough to be married.”
“Won’t you sit down and have your supper with us, Miss Peters?”
“No, I couldn’t eat a mite if anybody was looking,” answered Bess
bashfully.
“I feel that way myself,” said Brooke. “Please don’t look at me, Miss
Peters. Look at Gerald. It makes no difference to him.”
“What nonsense be you two talkin’?” asked the landlady, as Bess went
off into another fit of laughter. “I never saw Bess so silly before.”
“It ain’t me, mother. The man is so funny he makes me laugh.”
The conversation stopped here, as Bess was sent out on an errand by her
mother. Gerald and the tourist devoted themselves to eating, and did
full justice to the plain but wholesome meal.
“I feel better,” said Noel Brooke, as he rose from the table.
“Folks generally do after eatin’,” observed Mrs. Peters
philosophically. “I reckon if you’re through you’d better go out.
You’re only in the way here.”
“Mrs. Peters is delightfully unconventional,” remarked Mr. Brooke as in
obedience to the plain hint given by their landlady they went out and
resumed their seats under a large branching oak tree in the rear of the
cabin.
“She has given us a good supper. That’ll pay for her unconventional
manners. I wonder what sort of a person her ‘man’ is?”
The question was no sooner suggested than answered. A tall, powerfully
built man, clad in buckskin and carrying a rifle, followed by two young
men, slighter in figure, but quite as tall, strode from the woods, and
halted when they caught sight of Gerald and his companion.
“Who are you, strangers?” asked the old man suspiciously.
“We are travelers,” answered Noel Brooke promptly, “and at present we
are guests of Mrs. Peters. Are you Mr. Peters?”
“I run that cabin, if that is what you mean.”
“So I supposed. Then you are my landlord.”
“I’ve got nothin’ to do with that. Ef you’ve made a bargain with Sal
it’s all right.”
“We have made a bargain with Mrs. Peters, and she has given us a good
supper.”
“I hope there’s something left for us,” growled Peters, “or there’ll be
a row.”
The two sons carried between them an antelope, so it looked as if they
would not lack for supper.
The three men filed into the cabin, and their wants were provided for
without trenching upon the antelope they had brought with them. An
hour later they came out, and settled down near the two guests.
“Where do you come from?” demanded Peters with rude curiosity.
“From England, to start with,” answered Noel.
“So you’re a Britisher?”
“If you choose to call me so. I never heard the word till I came across
the water.”
“I don’t think much of Britishers.”
“I am sorry to hear it,” said Brooke amused. “May I ask why you are
prejudiced against my countrymen?”
“We’ve licked ’em twice, and we can lick ’em again,” answered Peters
forcibly.
“I really hope you will have no occasion. So far as I can judge England
feels very friendly toward the United States. I must contend, however,
that my countrymen know something about fighting.”
“Wal, perhaps they do!” admitted Peters shortly, “but you ain’t no
match for us. Take you, for instance, how old be you?”
“Twenty-eight.”
“My Ben, there, is only twenty, and he could double you up in less’n a
minute.”
Noel Brooke fixed a critical glance on the tall, awkward, but strongly
built youth, indicated as Ben.
“He is certainly taller than I am,” he admitted. There was about six
inches’ difference in their respective heights.
“Yes, and he’s tough and wiry. Do you think you could lay him out, Ben?”
Ben grinned and answered shortly, “I reckon!”
Gerald, who had witnessed his friend’s prowess, didn’t feel quite so
certain of this.
“I thought you’d crawl,” chuckled the old man, using an expression more
common in that locality than further east. “Ben’s a chip of the old
block, he is! He can lay out any tarnal Britisher you can fetch round.”
Noel Brooke felt that it was foolish, but this good-natured
depreciation of his abilities didn’t fail to nettle him. He again
surveyed Ben with a critical eye, and took stock of his points as a
fighting man. He saw that as an antagonist he was not to be despised.
Yet in his own case he possessed a scientific training to which
Ben could lay no claim. Then, again, he was unusually strong and
muscular for a man of his small proportions. He felt sure that even if
conquered, Ben would not gain an easy victory, and—though it was a
risk—he decided to take it.
“I don’t mind having a little contest with your son—friendly of
course,” he said quietly, as he rose in a leisurely, almost languid,
way from his low seat.
“What!” ejaculated Mr. Peters, almost doubting if he heard aright, “you
are willing to tackle Ben?”
“Yes.”
“Ho, ho! this is rich!” said the old man with an irresistible guffaw.
“You; oh jeminy!” and he nearly doubled up in a paroxysm of mirth.
“You seem amused,” said the tourist, rather provoked at the old man’s
estimate of his fighting ability.
“Excuse me, stranger! You’re the pluckiest man I’ve met in many a long
day. It does seem redikilus your standing up against Ben!”
“I won’t hurt him much, dad!” said Ben, opening his mouth in a
good-natured grin.
“Of course it’s all in fun,” rejoined Noel Brooke smiling.
“Sartin! But you’d best consider what you’re a undertakin’ before you
begin.”
“I have done that.”
“It’s like a boy standin’ up against me.”
“So I am a boy, am I?” asked Brooke with a smile at Gerald.
“You ain’t much bigger’n a boy, that’s a fact. My Ben was as big as you
when he was only fifteen years old. Wasn’t you, Ben?”
“I was as big as him when I was fourteen, dad.”
“That’s so. You see, stranger, we’re a big race—we Peterses. Ben takes
after the old man. When I was fifteen year old I could do a man’s work.”
“So could I, dad.”
“So you could, Ben. Do you want to feel Ben’s muscle, stranger?”
“No,” answered Noel Brooke smiling. “I would rather not. It might
frighten me in advance, you know, and I want to start fair.”
“I guess you’re right. Well, boys, you can begin if you’re ready. I
wouldn’t have missed this for ten dollars.”
He sat back and looked on with an air of intense interest, while the
two ill-matched antagonists prepared for the trial.
CHAPTER XIX
SCIENCE VERSUS STRENGTH.
EVEN Gerald felt rather alarmed when he saw the two contestants facing
each other. Ben, who reached a height of six feet one, towered above
his small antagonist as the spire of Trinity Church towers above
surrounding buildings. A difference of six inches makes the difference
between a tall man and a short one. Why is it that a man of six feet
looks double the size of a man of five, though in reality only one
fifth larger? It is an ocular deception which affects every one, but is
not readily explained.
“If you want to back out, you kin do so,” said Ben good-naturedly.
“What, an’ spoil our fun?” demanded the old man. “No, stranger, it
won’t do to back out now.”
“I have no intention of backing out, Mr. Peters,” said Noel Brooke
firmly.
“That’s right! I like your pluck,” said the old man in a tone of
relief, for he feared he would lose a spectacle which he expected to
enjoy. He would have felt as badly disappointed, as the visitors to
Jerome Park if the races should be postponed.
Noel Brooke had taken stock of his long-limbed adversary, and the
result was that he felt encouraged. Ben had long arms, very long
arms, but his figure, though muscular, was loose-jointed, and his
motion indicated that he was slow. Now rapidity of movement is a very
important thing in a contest such as was to take place between these
two.
“Mr. Peters,” said the Englishman, “may I trouble you to give the
signal by saying ‘Ready.’”
“Ready!” shouted the old man eagerly.
Ben began to move his arms in a flail-like way common to those who
are untrained in the art of fighting, and advanced with the utmost
confidence to the fray. If he had hit straight out his blows would have
gone above the head of his antagonist, which was rather a disadvantage,
though not so great perhaps as that under which Noel Brooke labored in
being so short. It seemed to Ben, therefore, that he had better throw
his long arms around his puny opponent, and, fairly lifting him off
the ground, hold him helpless at his mercy.
“I won’t hurt him!” thought Ben magnanimously.
But somehow his plan miscarried. Noel Brooke skilfully evaded the close
embrace which would have settled the fight then and there in favor of
Ben, and skipping, first to one side, then to the other, rained in a
shower of blows upon Ben, one of which took effect in his jaw, and
drove him staggering back discomfited.
It may safely be said that never were three men more amazed than Mr.
Peters and his two sons.
There stood Ben, actually staggering as if on the point of falling,
while the Englishman, calm and unruffled, stood in an easy position
watching for the next move.
Old Mr. Peters rose from the ground in his excitement.
“Pitch into him, Ben!” he shouted. “Ain’t you ashamed of bein’ beaten
back by a little chap like that! Where’s your pluck? Are you goin’ to
let a little undersized Britisher do you up afore your own father and
brother?”
“No, dad, I’ll be eternally walloped if I will. Look out, there! I’m
goin’ to smash yer. Look out I say! Here I come.”
“All right! I’ll look out,” said Noel Brooke calmly.
Ben stood a poorer chance now than before, for his unexpected defeat,
and the raillery of his father, made him angry and reckless of
consequences. He rushed at Brooke in an impetuous pell-mell manner
which was utterly reckless and exposed him to attack, and which would
have given his opponent a great advantage even if he had been less
skilful.
Ben was excited, and Noel Brooke was not. Moreover, the tourist now
thoroughly understood his advantage, and awaited the onslaught in calm
confidence. Again he succeeded in avoiding the close hug by which Ben
intended to paralyze and render him powerless, and took the opportunity
to get in a couple of sledge-hammer blows, one of which took effect on
Ben’s chin.
It was too much for him.
Like a tall poplar he swayed for a moment, and then, falling backward,
measured his length upon the ground.
“Why, Ben!” exclaimed his father in angry amazement, “what’s got into
yer? Hev you been drinkin’? Why, you can’t fight more’n an old cow! To
be floored by a little chap like that!”
Ben rose from the ground slowly, looking dazed and bewildered.
“He knows how to fight, he does!” he said.
“Why, he ain’t half as big as you, Ben! Ain’t you ashamed of yourself?”
“No, I ain’t,” said Ben in a sulky tone. “If you think it’s so easy to
tackle him do it yourself. He’s a reg’lar steam ingine, he is!”
“Will you try it again, Ben?” asked Brooke in a friendly tone.
“No, I won’t. I’ve had enough.”
His father was carried away by his angry excitement.
“I didn’t think one of my boys would disgrace me,” he said bitterly.
“You’ve told me to tackle him myself, and I’ll be whipped if I don’t do
it.”
“You’ll be whipped if you do, dad,” said Ben. “If I can’t lick him you
can’t.”
“We’ll see,” said the old man, gritting his teeth. “Stranger, I’m goin’
for yer!”
“Wait a minute, sir,” said Brooke quietly. “I don’t mean to fight you.”
“You’re afraid, be you?” sneered the old man.
“You may put it that way if you like, but I’m not going to raise my
hand against a man old enough to be my father.”
“I don’t ask no odds on account of my age. You’ll find me young enough
for you.”
“Perhaps you are right, for I couldn’t fight with any spirit against
you.”
“You’ve only licked Ben. Now you want to crawl off.”
“No; if your other son cares to meet me I’ll have a set-to with him.”
“Come, Abe, there’s your chance,” said the old man, addressing his
eldest son. “Just stand up to the Britisher, and let him see that he
can’t lick the whole Peters family.”
“All right, dad!” said Abe, rising and standing up a full inch taller
than his younger brother. “The stranger’s a good fighter, but I reckon
he can’t down me.”
He was tall, muscular, and with no superfluous flesh. It looked to
Gerald as if his friend would find it a hard job to vanquish this
backwoods giant.
“Wal, stranger, how do you feel about it?” asked Abe, as he saw Brooke
apparently taking stock of his thews and sinews.
“I don’t know,” answered the tourist. “I had a hard job with your
brother, but I think I’ll find it harder to tackle you.”
“Ho, ho! I think so too. Wal, dad, give the signal.”
Ben and his father seated themselves as spectators of the coming
encounter. It may seem strange, but Ben’s good wishes were in favor of
the stranger. He had been defeated, and if Abe were victorious he knew
that he would never hear the last of it. But if Abe, too, were worsted
he would have a very good excuse for his own failure. The father,
however, felt eager to have the presumptuous Briton bite the dust under
the triumphant blows of his eldest son.
Abe was not as impetuous or reckless as Ben. Indeed, had he been so
naturally, Ben’s defeat would have made him careful.
He approached cautiously, and at the proper time he tried to overwhelm
Brooke with what he called a “sockdolager.” But Noel Brooke had a quick
eye, and drawing back evaded the onslaught which fell on the empty air.
Before Abe could recover from the recoil the tourist dealt him a heavy
blow beneath his left ear which nearly staggered him.
Ben laughed gleefully, and rubbed his hands.
“Now you see how ’tis yourself, Abe!” he cried.
“Shut up!” growled his father. “Don’t you go to crowin’ over your
brother. He’s all right. Just wait!”
Abe’s rather sluggish temperament was angered by his brother’s
derisive laugh, and he too lost his head. From this time he fought
after Ben’s reckless fashion, of course laying himself open to
attack—an opportunity of which the tourist availed himself.
When five minutes later Abe measured his length on the turf, Ben got up
and bending over his prostrate brother said with a grin: “How did it
happen, Abe? An accident, wasn’t it!”
“No,” answered Abe manfully. “I reckon the stranger’s too much for
either of us.”
“Try it again, Abe!” said the old man in excitement.
“No, I’ve had enough, dad. I shan’t laugh at Ben any more. I can’t best
