demand with the inner circle of both men and women.

There were many pressing questions, both in the City and country. The
Napoleonic conquests had shaken Europe to its very center, and the
first disaster to the man regarded as invincible produced a thrilling
sensation. Mr. Barlow, author of some quite important pamphlets, was
sent to France to observe affairs, which were in a rather critical
state. The party clamoring for war with England made itself heard more
loudly. The right of search, the interference of trade, the insolent
and overbearing manner of England roused the whole country.

Through all the turmoil Mrs. Madison moved serenely, and if her heart
quaked with forebodings, it was not allowed to disturb her efforts
at making Washington a social center. Then her pretty widowed sister,
Mrs. Washington, married Judge Todd, and so became permanently settled
in the City. Every year saw a little improvement made in the Capitol
and the President's mansion. Streets began to have a more finished
appearance.

Jaqueline was not less a belle than she had been the previous winter.
Arthur Jettson was prospering, and Jane was bright and gay in spite of
three babies; so between the two homes and the outside world she was
kept full of engagements.

She was rather surprised when Lieutenant Ralston made her a proposal of
marriage. The friendly feeling had been so strong, and on her part so
unlike love, that there could be but one answer. He did not seem deeply
disappointed, but begged that they might remain friends.

Only a few days after she received a note from her mother. They had
been up to the Pineries, for grandmother was quite poorly and went
downstairs only to her dinner.

"She misses the stir and activity of being mistress of the house, and
her son's ideas are different in many respects from hers. But there
comes a time when the old must give way and step aside for the young.
Marian is devoted to her. I do not know now what your grandmother
would do without her. Did you hear that poor Mr. Greaves is dead at
last? But it has been a living death for six months or more; indeed,
he has never had his mind and memory clearly since the first stroke,
and now for weeks he has been barely conscious. He must have had an
iron constitution. I think your grandmother is very thankful that this
happened before the marriage rather than afterward. Miss Greaves wants
to close the house, dispose of the slaves by hire or leasing, and go
to England to educate the children. Brandon is as bitterly opposed to
war as ever his father could have been. Marian is sweet and kindly,
but has fallen into an apathetic state. Dolly is prospering, and from
all accounts very gay. She has written repeatedly to Marian. I wish
the poor girl could make the visit. It is sad to see her youth fading
away."

"Poor Marian! Oh, Patty, do you remember our first visit here? It seems
ages ago, doesn't it? and so much has happened. What girls we were!"

"And Mr. Madison was inaugurated! You went to a levee. How I did envy
you! Now I curtsey to Mrs. Madison every day or two, and gossip with
Mrs. Cutts, and am asked to meet this one and that one. Well, we're
the Virginian part of the Capital," laughing. "And how you schemed for
Marian! Jaqueline, you don't mean to marry Lieutenant Ralston yourself,
after all? Jane was so afraid you might attract him."

"Oh, no! He seems just like a brother." But she did not confess
she had answered the momentous question. She gave a great throb of
thankfulness. True, he insisted that Marian had never really loved him,
and a man would be foolish enough to go mooning about such a woman.

It was June of that year, after a stormy session of Congress, that
the word spread like wildfire through every State, first announced
in the National Intelligencer, that war had been declared against
Great Britain. And on June 21 the strongest naval force the country
could muster, a squadron of four warships, was fitting out at
Norfolk. Charleston was astir; New York, Boston, and Salem were busy
transforming merchant vessels that had lain idly at the wharves into
fighting ships. Young men hurried to Annapolis and placed themselves in
training, for the war must be largely fought out on the seas.

The efforts of England to harass and break up the commerce between the
United States and other countries, notably France, had exasperated the
pride and sense of justice of the country. The war-cry was taken up:
"Free trade and the rights of sailors. America must protect her own."
And although times had been hard and trade poor, out of it had grown
a knowledge of the young country's power and possibilities. Now the
nation was compact and had a centralized government. There had been
many improvements since old Revolutionary times, and the population had
nearly doubled.

Not that the country was a unit on this subject. The Federalists were
extremely bitter, and denounced the war as unnecessary and suicidal.
England, out of one war, was ready with her ripened experience to sweep
us from the seas. And what then?

On the frontier the campaign opened badly. At the disgraceful surrender
of Hull at Detroit not only was the commander blamed for treachery and
cowardice, but the Cabinet and the President held up to execration.

As an offset, naval victories suddenly roused the waning enthusiasm:
the Wasp and the Frolic, the Hornet and the Peacock, and the
Constitution's splendid escape from the Guerrière, that was to
drive the "insolent rag of bunting" from the seas, the chase from New
York to Boston, the brief fight of an hour and a half, when the bunting
was left to wave over the wreck, and Captain Dacres and the part of his
crew not in a watery grave made prisoners. No wonder Boston had a day
of rejoicing!

This was followed by other victories. The country began to draw a free
breath, and the conquest on the lakes crowned it with new courage and
rejoicing.

But in the Capital a fierce battle was raging. Whether Madison should
again be the candidate and succeed himself was a hotly disputed
question. But if the President came in for so much animadversion, it
was admitted that Mrs. Madison bore herself with steady courage and
cheerfulness. There was no distinction made between parties at her
receptions. No one was treated with coolness because he had reviled the
administration. Perhaps it was the charming courtesy that upheld Mr.
Madison through the stress of the times.

Then Jaqueline and Dr. Collaston were summoned suddenly to Cedar Grove.
Charles had been brought home in a rather alarming condition. There had
been spells of fainting and headaches that were thought to come from
overstudy, and at last Uncle Conway was seriously alarmed, and sent the
boy home in the care of a trusty slave and an old mammy. He was very
much exhausted by the journey, and Dr. Collaston saw at once that it
was something more serious than overwork.

"But I'll be sure to get well, won't I?" he asked wistfully. "There is
so much going on, and so much to do and to learn in this big world.
How grand it is! And if we should beat England again, wouldn't it be
magnificent? Do you feel sure that we will?"

"Never mind the war. Tell me when the headaches began. And the pain in
your back. You used to be such a bright, healthy little lad. Did you
take enough exercise?"

There was a faint flush creeping over the pale face, and the eyes
looked out on the distance as if taxing his memory, but instead he was
trying to elude a curious consciousness.

"The headaches? Oh, I used to have them sometimes at home. They're
girlish things, and it doesn't seem as if boys ought to fret over
them," with a touch of disdain.

"And you haven't been trying your strength leaping over five-barred
gates or jumping ditches, or perhaps riding too much?"

"I had my pony, you know, but I didn't ride very much. And latterly
it seemed to take away my strength. Aunt Catharine was sure it hurt
me, and then I didn't ride at all. So I left it for the children and
Varina. Aunt Catharine was wonderfully kind, but she isn't quite like
mamma, and father is so good and strong. I'm going to get well now. I
think I was homesick too, and that's babyish for a great boy. How Louis
would laugh at me!"

But no one laughed. Everybody spoke hopefully, to be sure, and treated
the matter lightly. Annis read to him, but he sometimes stopped her and
said: "Tell me about your visit to Patty. Doesn't it seem funny to have
Patty among the big people and going to the White House to dinner? Why
do you suppose Jacky didn't marry Mr. Carrington? I like him so much."

Then it was the old Froissart, with the queer pictures, or the war
news. The young people around came in, the boys ruddy, laughing, and
sunburned. The little darkies did their funniest tricks and sang songs
for young mas'r; but though he seemed a little stronger, he did not get
well. It had not been altogether the hard study.

"You are quite sure you can't remember any fall down there at
Williamsburg?" the doctor queried.

"Oh, I might have had little tumbles; boys often do," he said with an
air of indifference. "But nothing to hurt."

He caught a look on the face of Annis, who was standing by the window
idly drumming with her fingers on the sill, and frowned.

"What was that for?" The doctor intercepted the glance, and looked from
one to the other.

"Please don't drum, Annis," he said gently. "Did I frown?" to the
doctor.

Dr. Collaston studied him sharply.

"If you young people have any secret that bears on the case, you'd
better reveal it. Working in the dark isn't always advisable. Annis,
why do you change color?"

Annis flushed deeply now, and her eyelids quivered as if tears were not
far away.

"Let Annis alone," said the boy in as gruff a tone as so gentle a voice
could assume. "I suppose we did both think of one thing when you so
insisted upon a fall. It was a long while ago, before I went to school.
We were down by the creek. I was on Sam, who had been drinking and
wading in the stream. He turned to step out, and a stone rolled and he
stumbled. I went over his head, as I didn't have the rein in my hand.
It knocked the breath out of me for a moment. But I had been tumbled
off before, when I was learning to ride, and that really didn't--wasn't
of much account, only Annis was so frightened. Now shall I go further
back and tell you of all the downfalls I have had? I wasn't very
daring--Annis, wasn't I something of a babyish boy?"

"No, you were not." Annis smiled a little then.

"How did he fall?"

Annis could not recall that.

"After a little I walked home. No, I wasn't much hurt. I had a lame
thumb, I remember; but afterward there used to come what Phillis calls
a 'misery' in my back. The headaches did not come until in the winter."

The doctor nodded.

"But I'm bound to get well," added the boy. "I don't want to die. I
should have to be dead such a long, long while."

The doctor laughed. "No, we're not going to have you die. That is the
least of the trouble. But you may be an invalid quite a while."

"I shouldn't even mind that, if I could study some. I hate to fall
behind. And, you see, father is so proud of Louis that I couldn't bear
people saying about me 'Poor Charles!' in a pitying way."

"We won't even have them saying that," was the confident answer, as he
went out to add a note to the memoranda he had made of the case.

Charles held out his hand to Annis, who came over and gave it a little
convulsive clasp.

"Girls are queer," he said in a soft, slow tone that had no reproach in
it. "And Dr. Collaston turned you inside out. I do suppose doctors know
pretty generally what is going on inside of your body, and sometimes
they guess what is in your brain, or your mind, or whatever thinks. I
was so afraid he'd get it all out of you!"

"Oh, do you think it was that?" Annis' eyes overflowed, and he could
feel the quiver of her fingers.

"There--don't cry. It wasn't your fault. It wasn't even Varina's fault.
Sam would have turned and gone out, anyhow. And you can't think how
nice Varina is growing--pretty, too. I am sure it vexed her a good deal
to think she was not as pretty as the older girls, or even you. You're
so fair and sweet, with your clouds of light hair and your skin that
looks like transparent pearl. You know she was very sorry."

"Oh, we both thought you were dead!" Annis tried hard not to sob.

"Boys take a good deal of killing. You see, I wasn't anywhere near
dead. But I did give my back a hard wrench, and I felt it for a week or
two, then it all went away; and it was somewhere about the holidays--we
were getting greens for the church, and I fainted dead away. After that
the ache came back. It's dull and aggravating, not a sharp pain that
makes you feel as if you could get up and fight, but sometimes you are
wild to run away, to the very ends of the earth! Then it would creep
up to my head like some stealthy thing you couldn't put your finger
on. Aunt Catharine was good, but she fussed so much, and she's always
saying, 'Now, don't you think you ought to do this, or give up doing
that? I'm sure it hurts you.' And wanting to find out the cause of
everything and settle it on some particular point. It's queer that Rene
should get along so well; you know she has a fractious temper! But the
little girls just adore her, and at home she was teased a good deal."

He leaned back on the pillow, and his face was very white.

"Oh, you are so tired!" cried Annis.

"Yes. I have just a little bit to say, then you may read to me. I don't
want anything said about Varina. She would be almost killed if she
thought she was to blame for it. And she wasn't, you know. That little
splash in Sam's face wasn't anything. He enjoyed having a bucket of
water thrown over him. He's almost a water dog," laughing.

Annis tried to be convinced. If Varina had not persisted when Charles
asked her to stop! But, then, Sam had stepped on a rolling stone.

"That's just a little bit between ourselves, not to be talked about,
for it can't do any good, and would make Rene so very unhappy, now when
she's growing sweeter. I've thought I ought to tell the doctor, but I
didn't want to believe the fall had anything to do with it. Whatever
happens, you will always love me, Annis?"

"Yes," bending over to kiss the white forehead, her heart full of
sympathy and dread for an unknown future.

"And Jack's so lovely! Only I'm awful sorry she didn't marry Mr.
Carrington. Patty and her husband are so happy, so are mother and
father. There, I am tired. Get a book and read. That about Uncle Toby,
who had such a big, sweet, foolish heart."

The children had a great way of picking out parts they liked and
skipping the rest.

Then Dr. Collaston had to go up to Washington for a week or two, and
sent for Jaqueline also. For Patty had a little baby girl, and they all
laughed merrily about being uncles and aunts. What was happening to the
country was a minor consideration.

When the doctor came down again he had a well-digested plan.

"If it wasn't for running the risk on the ocean I should say take
the boy over to London at once and have the best medical skill there.
But there are some excellent physicians in Philadelphia and New York.
Old Dr. Rush does little in practicing now, but he is still ready and
generous with advice. You know, I am young in the profession, and as
yet we cannot boast much medical talent in our young city. Let Mrs.
Mason stay with him three months or so, and have the best treatment. I
think it quite a serious matter."

Mr. Mason was aghast at first.

"He is so young now, and the injury may not be as bad as I anticipated;
but it will need excellent skill to take him through without leaving
permanent marks and much suffering. So it had better be attended to at
once."

Jaqueline was alarmed at the seriousness of the case. If she could
go----

"No; it must be some person of experience, and one whom Charles loves
and trusts and would obey. He will make a good patient, for he is
anxious to get well; and though he does not whisper such a thing, he
has an awful fear of deformity----"

"Oh, you do not think----" in a tremulous tone.

"Hush! I have mentioned it to no one but your parents. It is not to be
discussed. It is a spinal trouble, and that covers the ground. And he
must have immediate care. You and Annis will come with us, for it would
be too lonely to have you here on the plantation, even if your father
is back and forth."

Mrs. Mason discussed the plans with Jaqueline at once, and the girl was
full of the warmest sympathy.

"If we could take Annis! but the doctor thinks it would be bad for the
child, and an added care."

"Oh, mamma, you may trust her with me! I am not as gay and volatile as
I was a year ago, nor so frivolous."

"She ought to go to school! Perhaps in the fall----"

"Mamma, that suggests something. A Madame Badeau, a very charming
French refugee, has started a school for children and young ladies
just a short distance from the doctor's. She is trying to get scholars
enough to insure her support. And she teaches the pianoforte. It is
quite coming into vogue since Mrs. Madison makes so much of the grand
one at the White House, where ladies are often asked to play. Annis
is such a little home girl that she would be very unhappy away. We all
love her so dearly. And I will look after her clothes, and the doctor
after her health, and Patty and the baby will be so much entertainment.
Patty is making a very charming woman, and much admired," said the
elder sister heartily.

"That is an admirable plan, and you are kind to take so much interest
in the child. It relieves me of considerable anxiety, and she has run
wild long enough, though she has picked up an odd conglomeration of
knowledge from Charles. I know your father will be glad and thankful."

"To let you go quite away--to stay!" ejaculated Annis, when she heard
of the plan. "Mamma, I have given up part of you a good many times, but
I can't give up all," and the soft lips quivered. "Why can I not go? I
will be very good, and not make any trouble. And I could help you with
Charles, and read to him. He is so fond of me."

"It would not be possible to take you, dear," she replied tenderly.
"You would add to my care. The doctor thinks this plan the best, the
only one."

Annis clung to her mother. "Philadelphia is ever so much farther than
Baltimore!" she cried despairingly. "And--you are my mother!"

"But, if Charles should be ill a long while! And think how lonesome he
would be with just a nurse! You can write quite well, and you can send
me letters about everything. Jaqueline knows of a delightful school you
can go to. It is time you were learning something, as well as Varina.
There, dear, don't make it harder for me."

Annis was crying on her mother's shoulder. She had thought a three- or
four-days' separation very hard--how would she stand weeks and months?
To be sure, they all loved her mother, and Charles was especially fond
of her; but, after all, she was her mother.

Then Mr. Mason came in, but for once she would not sit on his knee nor
listen to his bright predictions.

At first Charles refused utterly to go without Annis. He was sure she
couldn't be in the way. He loved mamma very much, but he had found
it lonely at school without Annis to tell things over to. She was
different from the other girls--and, then, they were grown women,
except Varina; and he could not stand it without her.

"I want to get well and grow up to manhood, and then none of you shall
take her away from me!" he cried.

Mrs. Mason gave a soft sigh, hoping he would have no greater heartache
in the days to come.

Dr. Collaston finally persuaded him that this would be the best
arrangement, as quiet and a darkened room might be necessary. "And it
would be like keeping her a prisoner," he said. "Her mother could not
take her out, and she could not go about a strange city alone, so it
would be rather selfish to ask so much of her."

"And I don't mean to be selfish. If you all think so, it must be right;
but I am sorry, all the same."

"You may get home by Christmas," the doctor said hopefully.




CHAPTER XVI.

IN OLD WASHINGTON.


There were many arrangements to make. Only Mr. and Mrs. Mason knew how
really serious the case might be, and Mrs. Mason felt that she could
not accept the responsibility alone. Dixon, the overseer, was a good
manager and a trusty man, and his wife a very efficient woman. Indeed,
the older house slaves could have run the place without supervision,
but it was well to have a responsible head. Louis would come down
now and then and inspect the financial affairs, and bring Jaqueline
occasionally. It would not be quite like going to London, and Mr. Mason
might return if really needed.

So they packed up and put things in order, and went up to Washington
to settle Annis. Charles seemed really stronger, but the doctor knew
it was only excitement. Patty's house was so pretty and the office so
handy, the boy did not see why he could not remain with her.

The house was quite fine for the times. Land was abundant, and houses
did not have to crowd. There were spacious rooms, for people were
hospitably inclined. Southern women made charming hostesses. In an
ell part the doctor had an office, for he was quite ambitious in his
profession, if he had one eye on the advancement of the City. He had
rented one of his houses, and another was likely to be sold.

There were people who shook their heads dubiously and feared an
invasion; others reasoned there was so little prospect of booty
in Washington compared to the commercial cities, there could be no
possible danger.

Jaqueline had a pretty corner room. Opening into it was a smaller one
devoted to Annis, with its dainty bed curtained with white muslin and
fringe that nodded in the slightest breeze. The floor was painted,
and a rug made by the slaves at home lay at the bedside. Grandmother
had sent Patty the mahogany furnishing of one room that she had
brought from the Mason house when she was married, and it was quite an
heirloom. This was in Jaqueline's room.

The baby went far toward reconciling Annis. A pretty, plump little
thing, with great dark eyes and a fringe of dark hair over a white
forehead, she looked like a picture. Judy, one of the slaves from home,
was her nurse.

Yet the parting was very hard for Annis. The doctor had taken Charles
in his own carriage. They were to go to Baltimore and rest a day or two
and visit some of the connections.

Annis felt at first as if she must be visiting.

"And do you remember we came up to Mr. Madison's inauguration and went
to the Capitol? It seems as if it must have been years and years ago,
so many things have happened since then. And everybody seems grown up
except Charles and I."

"You were a tiny little girl then. I hope you will not be very
homesick; there are so many things to see. And when the horses are sent
up we can take beautiful rides."

Annis swallowed over a lump in her throat.

"The baby will grow and be very cunning. And every week you are to
write to mamma."

"And to Charles. I am not to mind not getting answers from him; it
makes his head ache to write."

"And, then, there are the children at Aunt Jane's. Her baby talks
everything in the funniest crooked fashion. To-morrow we will call on
Madame Badeau. I hope you will like school. It is only in the morning."

"I am fond of learning things if they are not too hard."

"Some of us have to learn quite hard lessons," and Jaqueline sighed.

Madame Badeau lived in a rather shabby-looking rough stone house, quite
small in the front, but plenty large enough for her and a serving-man
and maid, and running back to a pretty garden, where she cultivated all
manner of beautiful flowers, and such roses that lovers of them were
always begging a slip or piece of root. There was a parlor in the front
filled with the relics of better days, and draped with faded Oriental
fabrics that were the envy of some richer people. There was always a
curiously fragrant perfume in it. Next was the schoolroom, entered by
a side door, where there were small tables in lieu of desks, wooden
chairs, and a painted floor that the maid mopped up freshly every
afternoon when the children were gone. Back of this were the living
room and a very tiny kitchen, while upstairs were two rooms under the
peaked roof, where Madame and Bathsheba slept.

Madame was small, with a fair skin full of fine wrinkles. She wore a
row of curls across her forehead, a loosely wound, soft white turban
that gave her a curious dignity, and very high heels that made a little
click as she went around. She was quite delicate, and had exquisite
hands, and wore several curious rings. Her voice was so finely
modulated that it was like a strain of music, and she still used a
good many French words. She had been at the French court and seen the
great Franklin and many other notables, and had to fly in the Reign of
Terror, with the loss of friends and most of her fortune.

Bathsheba, the maid, was nearly six feet tall, and proud of some Indian
blood that gave her straight hair and an almost Grecian nose. She was
proud of her mistress too, and was in herself a bodyguard when Madame
went out. The old man who kept the garden clean and did outside work
was a slave too old for severe labor, and was hired out for a trifle.
At night he went home to sleep at the cabin of a grandchild.

Annis was attracted at once by the soft voice that ended a sentence
with a sort of caressing cadence. And when Jaqueline wrote her name in
full Madame said:

"Bouvier. That is French. Your mamma's maiden name, perhaps?"

"No," returned Annis, with a little color. "It was my own papa, who is
dead. And he could read and talk French. I knew a little, but I was so
young when he died."

"And our father married Mrs. Bouvier some years ago," said Jaqueline,
"so Annis and five of us Mason children constitute the family. Mrs.
Bouvier was cousin to our own mother."

"I shall take great pleasure in teaching you French. Poor France has
had much to suffer. And now that detestable Corsican is on the throne,
with no drop of royal blood in his veins! but you can tell what he
thinks of it when he divorces a good and honorable woman that his son
may inherit his rank. But my nation did not take kindly to a republic.
They are not like you," shaking her turbaned head.

The distance to school was not great, so in fair weather it was a nice
walk. Now the place is all squares and circles and rows of beautiful
houses, but then people almost wondered at the venturesomeness of Dr.
Collaston and Mr. Jettson building houses in country ways; for although
streets were laid out and named, there was little paving. The Mason
tract was on Virginia Avenue, but the others had gone back of the
Executive Mansion, on high ground, and had a fine view of the whole
country; and Georgetown being already attractive, it seemed possible
the space between would soon be in great demand.

Out beyond them were some fine old mansions belonging to the time of
plantations and country settlements. The very last of the preceding
century the Convent of the Visitation had been erected, for so many of
the Maryland gentry were Roman Catholics. There was a school for girls
here, mostly boarding scholars.

Then Rock Creek stretched way up on the heights, threading its path
in and out of plantations where fields were dotted with slaves at
their work, often singing songs with the soft monotonous refrain that
suggested the rhythm of the distant ocean. Occasionally you met a
silvery lake that bosomed waving shadows; then stretches of gigantic
oaks, somber pines, and hemlocks; and now and then a little nest of
Indian wigwams whose inhabitants preferred quasi-civilization.

To the southeast, on the Anacostia River, was the navy yard, active
enough now. And there was Duddington Manor, with its high wall and
stately trees overtopping it, built by Charles Carroll, to be for a
long while a famous landmark in solitary grandeur. But the Van Ness
mansion, nearer the Potomac, was always alight, and often strains of
music floated out on the night air to the enjoyment of the passer-by.

Annis had been living in a kind of old world, peopled with the heroes
of Homer, the knights of Arthur, and the pilgrims of Chaucer, as well
as Spenser's "Faërie Queene." She had a confused idea that Pope's
garden was in some of these enchanted countries, and that Ben Jonson
and Shakspere were among the pilgrims who sang songs and told tales as
they traveled on, or stopped at the roadside and acted a play. Charles
had learned where to place his heroes and who of them all were real.

Annis left the realm of imagination and fancy and came down to actual
study. At first she did not like it.

"But you must know something about modern events," declared Jaqueline,
"to read well and write a nice letter; and to understand the history
of our own country, which is all real. And to keep accounts--every
housekeeper ought to be able to do that. Grandmamma had to look after
the big plantation until papa came of age; and women have to do a good
many different things."

"I think I shall like learning them, or most of them," and Annis' eyes
shone.

"There is dancing, too; you must go in a class next winter. You can
embroider nicely, so you needn't bother about that. And I have been in
a painting class where there were some quite small girls. Some ladies
paint fans and flower pieces beautifully. And Patty thinks she will
have a pianoforte, which would be delightful. Singing classes are in
vogue, too."

"Oh, dear, can one learn so much?" and the child looked perplexed.

"You do not have to learn it all at once," returned the elder with a
smile.

Very few people had any thought of vacations then. True, Washington had
a dull spell when Congress was not in session, and some of the people
retired to country places or went to the Eastern Shore of Maryland,
or to Bladensburg to drink medicated waters. But Madame Badeau kept
her school going from eight to twelve for the children's classes. They
were all composed of girls, for while Madame admired well-bred young
men very much, she could not tolerate growing boys. The afternoons were
devoted to what were called fancy branches. Young women came to learn
embroidery and lace-making, the duties on foreign goods were so high,
and now the risk of importing was so great.

There began to be a different feeling about education. Intelligent
women were coming to the fore. To be sure, science was considered
unwomanly, but handsome and well-bred Mrs. Gallatin knew enough on
many subjects to entertain her husband's guests charmingly. Everybody
would have been horrified at the thought of a woman's college, and
if a woman's convention had been announced it would have created more
indignation than the war was raising.

Yet women with but few early advantages went to Madame Badeau to be
trained in conversation and the art of writing polite notes, and some
who had a facility for verse-making to learn how an acrostic was put
together, or an anagram, and the proper fashion for congratulatory
verses. A few women poets had appeared, but the French "blue stockings"
were quoted in derision. Still, it had occurred to other women beside
Mrs. Adams that the mothers of sons trained for perilous times needed
to be intelligent, at least.

For the first time Annis was thrown with a variety of girls near her
own age. None of them were like Varina--but, then, they were not like
each other. How strange there should be so many different kinds of
people in the world! It amazed her.

Jaqueline was much interested in her unfolding. There was a delicious
quaintness about her that contact with Madame Badeau brought out. She
had some very clear ideas too, and there was so much to write about.

"I shall have to send a letter to mamma one week and to Charles the
next," she said sagely. "Then I shall not tell the same things over."

"That is an excellent idea. You are a bright little girl," returned
Jaqueline with a smile.

"And it will save my own time. Jaqueline, can't we go to Washington
some time and really see it? One of the girls called me a country
lass because I did not know about the streets and the way everything
ran. And how queer they should be named after the letters and numbers!
What will they do when the letters are exhausted?--and there are but
twenty-six."

"There are the numbers, you know."

"But the numbers run criss-cross. Do you suppose they will go on as we
work a sampler, make little letters and then Old-English text? One girl
has the most beautiful Old-English alphabet worked in red silk, but it
is very hard to tell the letters."

Jaqueline laughed. "No! I think they will take names then."

"They make up parties and go to Analostan Island. And, do you know,
there are beautiful falls up the Potomac, ever so far!"

"Yes; they are beautiful, indeed; and we will get the doctor to take us
up some time."

"Everything is so"--glancing around for a word--"so interesting.
And there are so many people. I like it very much. Only if we could
have mamma and Charles and papa! Then, it would be mean to crowd out
Varina."

"We'll have the whole household at Christmas."

Louis was very much interested in the surprise and pleasure over
everything, and he found Annis quite a delightful companion for walks.
She was so eager to hear about the founding of the City.

"It has only come of age," said Louis. "For the cornerstone was laid in
1793."

"And there are cities in Europe over a thousand years old! Oh, what an
old world it must be!"

"But we are a new country altogether. Then, we have much older cities."

"After all," she said reflectively, "the ground was here. And some of
the houses and the people."

They were still working on the Capitol. Stonecutters and
marble-dressers in their little sheds were a common sight.

A great many people went to Christ Church, which had been erected soon
after the laying out of the City. Then there was old St. Paul's, that
had stood nearly a century, built, as many other places were, of brick
brought from England. Since that day many a secret had been learned,
and during the last three years the United States had manufactured
largely, though many people sighed for foreign goods.

There were two weeks in August when Madame Badeau went away for a
little rest and change of air. Mrs. Collaston decided to spend a
fortnight at Bladensburg, and though Aunt Jane cheerfully offered to
keep Annis, Jaqueline insisted upon adding her to the party. Little
Elizabeth Patricia, commonly called Bessie, and by her father Queen
Bess, was thriving wonderfully.

Jaqueline had changed a good deal, but she was a greater favorite
than ever, it seemed, and had no end of admirers. One of them, a very
popular and well-to-do gentleman, made her an offer of marriage.

"Are you really going to stay single forever?" exclaimed her sister.
"I wouldn't take Roger Carrington now if he asked me again. A man
who cannot overlook a little tiff--though you did flirt shamefully,
Jaqueline! But it doesn't much matter. I observe the men are just as
ready to be flirted with again. Only don't wait too long, and don't
pass by the good chances."

Having made an excellent marriage herself, she considered that her
counsel and advice were worth a good deal to her unmarried friends.

Roger Carrington seemed to have passed out of Jaqueline's radius,
whether purposely or not. Ralston spent much of his time out of
Washington, inspecting and planning fortifications. Jaqueline kept up a
friendly, occasional correspondence with him, and he had been strongly
interested about Charles' mishap.

She was much too proud to allow herself to think she still cared for
Roger, yet she admitted in her secret heart she had seen no one to put
in his place, though there might be men quite as worthy.

Dr. Collaston went up to Philadelphia for a few days, and learned
that his worst fears in regard to Charles had been realized. The most
celebrated surgeon at that time, who bade fair to do quite as much for
the advancement of medicine as Dr. Benjamin Rush had done in his day, a
Dr. Physic, had been noting the case carefully, and decided that only
an operation could prevent a settled deformity. Charles was growing
stronger in some respects, and when the weather became cooler this
would be undertaken.

He told the elders, but they kept Annis in ignorance. She went back to
school; and, though she had been small for her age, seemed suddenly to
shoot up and outgrow everything.

"And I shall not be little Annis any longer. I suppose everybody does
grow taller and older. And now I am past thirteen. When shall I be old
enough to curtsey to Mrs. Madison?"

"Oh, you can do that at any time. And since Varina has gone to
Charleston to visit Dolly Floyd, you ought to have some indulgence. She
has been to a reception at the Governor's."

The election of Madison for a second term had been largely the result
of the victories that had thrilled the nation. The navy was springing
into existence as if by magic. Some fine English ships had been
captured and graced by the Stars and Stripes, and were doing brilliant
work under their new colors.

The Constellation came up the Potomac, gayly decorated with flags
and bunting, and Captain Stewart gave a grand dinner, at which the
President and his wife and Mrs. Madison's son, then a handsome and
elegantly bred young man, were among the most distinguished guests.
Louis had obtained cards for himself and lady through Judge Todd.

"You look pretty enough to be married," said Annis when she saw
Jaqueline in her pretty pink gauze gown, the lace on it run with
silver threads, and her dainty slippers with silver buckles set with
brilliants that certainly did twinkle. The dinner was spread with every
luxury the season afforded, and enhanced by the brilliant lights and
profusion of cut-glass with its sparkling points. While the elders sat
on the quarterdeck surrounded by some of the chief men of the nation,
beneath an awning of red, white, and blue danced the belles and beaus.

Lieutenant Ralston had come late, but he was in time for the dancing.
When he caught sight of Jaqueline he made his way over to her.

"It has been so long since I have seen you!" he exclaimed. "And I
really had not thought of meeting you to-night, but I shall be in
Washington for a fortnight or more. And gay, pretty Patty has settled
into a pattern wife and mother! Does she read you lectures?"

"Sometimes," returned Jaqueline, smiling.

"Tell me about all the others. It seems an age since I have heard of
any of you."

"Then if you make such a little account of my letters I shall not write
you any more."

"Nay, do not be so cruel. You can hardly call them letters, they are
so brief. Still, I am glad to get them, and feel anxious about the poor
little boy. You think he will recover?"

"Dr. Physic holds out hopes of a successful termination. But it will be
very slow."

"And that dainty little Annis? You are mothering her? Do you know,
your charming solicitude made me smile. Was she much homesick after her
mother?"

"Only a little at first. She goes to school and is wonderfully
interested."

"And Varina? Our little wasp?" laughingly.

"Varina is spending the winter with Dolly. You know she married a Floyd
connection. He has been elected a member of the State legislature this
winter. Varina is quite a young lady. We Masons have a trick of growing
up soon."

"And your grandmother? How fares it with her?"

Jaqueline smiled inwardly at this mark of respect, and retailed
the little happenings at the Pineries. He listened attentively when
Marian's name was mentioned, and made no bitter comment. Was it utter
indifference?

"This is our dance," he said, offering his hand; and they glided down
the polished deck. Then someone else came for her, and she saw very
little more of him until he marched up to bid her good-by and assure
her he should call speedily.

"What a fine fellow Ralston has made!" Louis said as they were
returning home. "He has half a mind to go in the navy, he tells me.
They are winning all the glory. But he is very eager about the defenses
of Washington. I do wonder if there is any real danger?"

"Oh, I hope not!" anxiously.

"No; we do not want the war brought to our door."

"New York or Boston will offer greater attractions. The enemy is raging
over the loss of the Guerrière, and threatens desperate revenge. Oh,
we are safe enough!"

Annis was eager to hear all about the ball. Was it prettier because
it was on a ship? And wasn't Jaqueline glad to see Lieutenant Ralston
again? Did anyone have a more beautiful frock?

"Oh, yes!" laughed Jaqueline.

"But no one was any prettier, I am sure," she said confidently.

The enthusiasm over the victories was running high. The news came
of Commodore Decatur's famous victory off the Canary Islands, when
he captured the Macedonian after an hour and a half of terrific
fighting, with the loss of only five men killed and seven wounded. The
United States brought her prize into New York amid great rejoicing.

The news was hailed in Washington with the utmost enthusiasm. It so
happened that the evening had been selected for a brilliant naval ball,
to celebrate the two other victories, and as a compliment to Captain
Stewart. Ralston had been in a few days before with invitations for the
Collaston household.

"I almost wish I was grown up," said Annis wistfully. "Can't little
girls ever see anything?"

"Why, she ought to go," declared Ralston. "There may not be such
another event until peace is declared, and if we go on this way, it
must be, ere long. But it will be a great thing to remember in years to
come. Think of the old ladies who saw our beloved Washington and the
heroes of the Revolution, how glad they are to talk it all over! Oh,
Annis must go, by all means!"

"But such a mere child!" said Patty.

"Well, she has eyes and ears. I will take her myself. Mistress Annis
Mason, may I have the pleasure of escorting you to the grand naval
ball? It will give me a great deal of pleasure, I assure you. I am a
bachelor, fancy free, so no one's heart will be broken."

He rose as he said this, and crossed the room to where Annis was
sitting, leaning her arm on Jaqueline's knee.

The child colored and glanced up in a puzzled manner.

"Well--why do you not answer?" said Patty in amusement. "Madame Badeau
ought to train you in polite deportment."

"Can I say just what I should like?" a little timidly, glancing from
one sister to the other.

"Yes," answered Patty laughingly. "Yes," said Jaqueline a little more
gravely.

Annis rose and made a formal little courtesy, holding the side of her
skirt with charming grace.

"It will afford me the greatest pleasure to accept your invitation,
Lieutenant Ralston," she said in a stately and dignified manner.

"Thank you! That is very handsomely done. After this show of proper and
ceremonious behavior you cannot refuse her permission?" turning to the
elders.

"We are vanquished, certainly," admitted Patty. "Now you may be good
enough, perhaps, to tell us what she must wear."

