concentrated on other people's colds.  Helen is quite well, thank you.
Now, Mrs. Avery, I want to ask you"--
"Don't," interrupted Jean Avery.
"But I find it necessary," growled Dr. Thorne.
She shook her head, and turned her face, which shrank against the blue
pillow.  Pink and the baby began to quarrel in the nursery, and then
both cried belligerently.
"The baby kept me awake," faintly suggested Mrs. Avery.
"It is an excellent explanation,--but you've just thought of it,"
observed Dr. Thorne.  He spoke in a much louder tone than was
necessary; his voice rose with the kind of instinctive, elemental rage
under which he fled to covert with a sympathy that he found
troublesome.  "What I wish to know--what I insist on knowing--is, what
caused this attack?  It is something which happened since breakfast.  I
demand the nature of it--physical? mental? emotional?"
"You may call it electric," answered Jean Avery, with her own lovable
smile--half mischief, half pathos.
"I see.  The telephone."  Dr. Thorne leaned back in his chair and
scrutinized the patient.  Quite incidentally he took her pulse.  It was
sinking again, and the tempo had lapsed into unexpected irregularity.
"Helen shall come to see you," said Dr. Thorne with sudden gentleness.
"I 'll send her this afternoon.  You will keep perfectly still till
then....  Mr. Avery is in town?" carelessly.  "Coming home to lunch?"
"He has gone to court."
"To dinner, then?"
"It depends on the verdict.  If he wins the case"--
"Oh, I see.  And if he loses?"
"He might go gunning, if he lost it," answered the wife, smiling quite
steadily.  "He might go gunning with Mr. Romer.  He is very tired.  He
takes it hard when he does not win things--cases, I mean.  He
might--you see"--  She faltered into a pathetic silence.
"I will send Helen at once," replied the physician.  He felt that he
had offered his subtlest and most artistic prescription.  More than
most wives are valued, Dr. Thorne loved his.
But as he went downstairs a black frown caught him between the brows.
In the course of an hour he managed to dispatch a messenger to the
court-house.  Sixty patients clamored for him, but he wrote the note
twice over, sitting in his buggy, before he sent the third copy:--
DEAR AVERY,--Your wife has suffered one of the attacks whose nature I
explained to you some time ago.  I found her condition serious,
indicating a marked weakness of the heart.  I consider that she had a
narrow escape.  You would not forgive me if I did not tell you, that
you may govern your movements accordingly.
Yours as ever,
  ESMERALD THORNE.
Jean Avery lay with closed eyes, quite still, and smiling tranquilly.
Only the invalid mistress of a home knows how to value the presence of
another lady in a household where children and servants fill the
foreground, and where, as Dr. Thorne once put it, "every care as fast
as it arises is taken to the bedside of the patient."  The ever-womanly
arrived with Mrs. Thorne.  In the repose which came with her coming,
and did not go with her going, the sick woman lay sheltered for the
remainder of the day.  Her face, her voice, her motions, expressed the
touching gratitude of one who has long since learned not to look beyond
the bounty of temporary relief.  Mrs. Thorne noted this; she noticed
everything.
The telephone called towards noon, ringing rapidly and
impatiently--operators, like horses, were always nervous under Marshall
Avery's driving; and when an anxious message from the court-house
reached the wife, she said, "Dear Helen!" as if it had been Helen's
doing.  And when they told her that Mr. Avery asked how she was, and
would get home by mid-afternoon, and at any moment if she needed him,
and would not leave her again that day, and that he sent his love to
her and begged her to be careful for his sake, her breath fell so short
with pleasure that they took fright for her.
"My husband is so kind to me!" she panted.  Then her color came--a
tidal wave, and her pulse, which had been staggering, fell into step
and began to march strongly.
"But this is a miracle!" cried the doctor's wife.
"Love is always a miracle," Jean Avery said.  Then she asked to have
her hair arranged, and wanted an afternoon dress, and lace, and would
have a bracelet that her husband gave her, and the turquoise pin he
liked, and begged to be told that she looked quite well again, for
"Marshall hates to see me ill!"
And the children--see that the children are dressed; and his
slippers--they must be put beside the library table in that place he
likes; not anywhere else, please, but just where he is used to finding
them.  And Kate will have dinner early; and about the soup--and the
salad--and not to overdo the grouse; and to light the library fire--and
were they sure she could n't go down herself to see to things, and get
as far as the library sofa?
"Mr. Avery does n't like me not to meet him....  My husband is so good
to me!" she urged, in the plaintive staccato that her short breath cut,
till Helen's eyes blazed and then brimmed to hear her.  And now Helen
was gone, and the children; and Jean lay quite still and alone, smiling
tranquilly, as we said.
Her thoughts were long-distance wires, as the thoughts of the sick are,
and they covered the spaces of ether and of earth that afternoon--the
unexplored wastes into which the soul invites no fellow-traveler.  Her
heart fled to the rose-red star of their early dream.  They had loved
as the young and the well, the brave and the bright, may love;
passionately, as the brown and the blond do; and reasonably, as the
well-mated and the fortunate can.  They were of the same age, the same
class, the same traditions; they knew the same people, who
congratulated them in the same words; they had inherited the same
ideals of life, and went buoyantly into it.  Not so much as a fad had
inserted itself between their tastes, and in their convictions they
were mercifully not divided.  At first their only hardship had been the
strenuous denial of the professional life; but she never wished him to
make money--she was quite happy to put up muslin curtains at twelve and
a half cents a yard, while her friends hung lace at twenty dollars a
window--and had flung herself into the political economy of their
household with a merry and ingenious enthusiasm, which she wore as
charmingly as she did the blond colors, the blue, the lavender, the
rose, the corn, over which she strained her honest eyes and bent her
straight shoulders to save dressmakers' bills.  Since she had been ill
she had tried--how hard no man could ever understand--not to grow
careless about her dress.  "The daintiest invalid I ever knew," Dr.
Thorne used to say.
Marshall cared a good deal about such matters, was fastidious over a
wrinkle, was sure to observe a spot or a blemish, while the immaculate
might pass unnoticed for weeks; disliked old dresses; when she had a
new one on he admired her as if she were a new wife, for a day or two.
She was full of pretty little womanly theories about retaining her
husband's devotion....  When had it begun to flag?  She had made a
science of wifehood, and applied it with a delicate art....  Why had it
failed? ... No, no, no!  Not that!  Not that word, yet!  Say
rather, why had it faltered?  With a tremulous modesty characteristic
of her sweet nature, she scored herself for the disillusions of her
married life, as if somehow the fault were hers.
How had it all come about?  Was she fretful with the first baby?  It
seemed to have begun (if she thought very hard about it) with the first
baby.  She knew she had faded a little then.  Pink was a crying baby.
"I lost so much sleep!  And it makes one look so, about the eyes.  And
then, as Marshall says, maternity affects the complexion."
Her thoughts came down from the rose-red star like aeronauts on
parachutes, landing in fog and swamp.  Oh, the weariness, the waste of
it!  For the more she thought, the more she felt herself like one
hanging in mid-space--heaven above her, earth below, and no place for
her in either.  She could not fly.  She would not fall.  "And I 'm not
very strong to be clinging and holding on, like this.  One might let go
... and not mean to."
And yet she had held on pretty well, till the second baby came.  She
had never felt this moral dizziness till then, this something which
might be called life-vertigo, that made it seem in mad, black moments
easier to drop than to cling.  For after the boy was born she was not
well.  She had never been strong since.  And Marshall hated sickness.
He was such a big, strong, splendid fellow!  It had been very hard on
Marshall.
He hated it so, that she hated it too.  She had scorned the scouts of
her true condition, and when the trouble at the heart set in, and he
called it "only nervous," she said, "No doubt you are quite right,
dear," and blamed herself for feeling somehow hurt.  She did not speak
of it to any one for a long time, after that.  But when, one easterly
afternoon, the air being as heavy as the clods of the grave, she lay
gasping for life for three hours alone, not able to reach a bell or
call for help, she sent for Dr. Thorne.
And he told her, for she insisted--and he knew his patient; not a woman
to be wheedled by a professional lie--he told her the truth.
"Poor Marshall!" said Jean Avery.  "It will be so hard on my husband!
... Don't tell him, doctor.  I forbid you, doctor.  I think he 'd take
it easier if I told him myself, poor fellow!"
She did not tell him that day, for he did not come home; nor the next,
for he had a headache; nor the third, for he was in excellent spirits,
and she could not bear to.  In fact, she waited a week before she
gathered her courage to speak.  One Saturday evening he did not go to
the club, but was at home, and he had been very kind to her that day,
and loving, and in fact he noticed her appearance, and asked her what
was the matter, and why she breathed so short.
Then she drew his hand over her eyes, so that she might not see how he
would look, and the beautiful curve of her lip broke a little, for she
felt so sorry for her husband; but her firm voice carried itself with
courage (Jean never had the invalid's whine), and she told him what the
doctor said.
Marshall Avery listened in a silence which might have meant the utmost
of distress or the innermost of skepticism.  He walked to the window
and stood for a while looking out into the lighted street.  Perhaps he
had a blundering, masculine notion of doing the best thing for her.
She would be the first to believe that.
"I 'll see Thorne about this," he said presently.  "I can't have him
putting you in a panic.  You 've grown very nervous lately.
"Cheer up, Jean," he added, coming over to her sofa.  "Don't grow
hysteric, whatever happens."
He sat down and put his arm around her.  Five minutes ago she would
have clung to him and poured her soul out on his breast--would have put
up her hand to his cheek and blessed him and worshiped him, as a wife
does--and would have spared him the worst of everything, and given him
the best; refrained from complaint, and lavished hope; made little of
her own suffering, and much of his distress for her sake, as this wife
could....  Now, she lay quite still and irresponsive.  She did not
speak, but tried to smile gently upon him.  Then he saw her color
change, and he flung the window up--for he was startled--and held her
to the air.
"Poor girl!" he said.  "Poor Jean!  My poor Jean!"
"Oh, don't!" cried Jean.  For the tenderness, coming after that
other, well-nigh slew her.  She began to sob,--the cruel sobs that
wreck a weakened heart,--and the man fought for her life for an hour.
When Dr. Thorne came the danger was quite over; as it usually is in
such cases before the physician can arrive; but he said roughly,--
"What have you been doing to her?"
"He has been saving my life," panted Jean.
"Well," replied Esmerald Thorne, "he can."
When the two men went downstairs, the doctor said,--
"Your pardon,--if I wronged you, Avery?" for he was generous in apology
for so imperious a man.
"Why, yes, doctor," returned the husband, with a puzzled face, "I think
you did."
Jean lay quietly on the blue lounge.  Pink and the baby were taken over
to Helen's.  The house was unnaturally still.  Marshall was coming home
in the middle of the afternoon to see her--to see her!  The sick
woman seemed to herself for that span of peace like a bride again,
cherished and happy.  Care and illness had never occurred.  Life had
not dulled the eyes of love.  Use had never threatened joy with
indifference.  This word, that deed, such a scene, all were phantasms
of the fog into which she had fallen.  She must have grown morbid, as
the sick do.  Oh, the rose-red star hung in the heavens yet!
His key clicked in the lock, and he came running up the stairs; dashed
in, and knelt beside the lounge; then put his arm about her quietly,
for he was shocked when he saw how she looked.  His dark, fine face was
broken with his feeling.  Hers quivered as she lifted it to his kiss.
"Did you lose the case, poor dear?" she said.
"Curse the case!" cried Avery.  "What's a case? ... I 'm not going
gunning, Jean.  I 'm going to stay with you."
Color brushed all over her wan cheek, her brow, her lips.
"I was so afraid of guns!" she pleaded.  "I always have been!"
"It is one of your weaknesses," replied the husband, a shade less
tenderly.
"I know, dear.  I have so many!  Guns--and boats--I am ashamed of
myself.  They 're like snakes.  The terror is born in me.  I don't know
how to help it.  You are very patient with me, Marshall.  Perhaps, if I
were stronger--but when one is ill, one can't--always--help things." ...
"Never mind," he said, in a magnanimous tone.  "When you get well, you
will feel differently.  We must get you well, now.  That is all I care
for.  It is all I care for in the world," he added, warmly and
earnestly.
She stirred towards him with an expression that would have moved a far
more unworthy man than he.  It was quite unconscious with her, and as
instinctive as a law of nature.  So a flower pleads for light.  So life
asks for nutrition.
"Could n't you sit up--if I held you?  Try!" he commanded, shaking his
head in a boyish way he had: she could not have told how she loved to
see it.  He took her in his arms, and carried her across the room to
the easy-chair.  There he gathered her like a child, and put his cheek
to hers, murmuring little words and phrases that both loved--language
of their honeymoon, and joyous years.  She drank them down as if they
had been the breath of life.
"Doctors don't know!" he cried.  "I believe you could get well."
"I know I could," said Jean.
"You will!  I say you must.  You shall!" insisted Marshall Avery, in
his passionate, peremptory voice.  Jean did not reply.  But she smiled
divinely into his bending face.  Swiftly she saw the room flooded with
roselight.  A star swam in mid-ether.  Two floated in it, with bridal
eyes.  Earth was far and forgotten.  Heaven was close.
He was quite devoted to her for a week or two after this; came home
early, took her sometimes to drive, made much of little family jokes
and merriment, admired everything she wore, gave her a white silk
Spanish shawl, and brought her the latest novels; sent her flowers like
a lover, and spent his evenings with her.  He talked of another maid to
take care of the children, so that Molly could give her time to the
invalid.  But Mrs. Avery shook her head.  They could not afford that.
"You are so generous to me, Marshall! ... I am sorry it is so expensive
to be sick.  But I 'm getting better, dear--don't you see I am?  I have
n't felt so well for a year," she added.
"Oh, we 'll have you round again pretty soon," he said, with that
hearty optimism which, one could not have told exactly why, seemed just
to miss of the nature of sympathy.  But Jean's drafts on sympathy had
always been scanty.  It was very much as it was about the lace
curtains.  She could get along without what other women demanded.  At
least, she had always thought she could.  It used to be so.  She was
troubled sometimes to find that sickness creates new heavens and a new
earth, and that the very virtues of health may turn again and rend one.
It was as if one had acquired citizenship in a strange planet, where
character and nature change places.
It was with a kind of fear that she received her husband's acceleration
of tenderness.  How was she to forego it, when the time came that it
might--she omitted to acknowledge to herself that it would--overlook
her again?  She tried feverishly to get better in a hurry, as if she
had been in some Southern climate where she was but a transient
tourist.  She tried so hard, in fact, as sometimes to check the real
and remarkable improvement which had now befallen her.
One day Mr. Avery announced that he had the toothache, and if he were
not so driven he would go and see Armstrong; he meant to give Armstrong
all his work after this; Armstrong was a good fellow, and they often
met Saturdays at the club.  But the great Electric case was up just
then, and necessary dentistry was an impossible luxury to the young
lawyer.  Endurance was a novelty, and Avery grew nervous under it.  He
bore pain neither better nor worse than most men; and he was really
suffering.  Any wife but Jean would have called him cross.  Jean called
him her poor boy.  She dragged herself from her lounge--she had been a
little less well the last few days--and lavished herself, as women like
Jean do, pouring out her own tenderness--a rare wine.  After all, there
are not too many tender women; Jean was a genius in sympathy.  She
spent more sweetness and strength on that toothache than the other kind
of woman has to give her husband if he meets a mortal hurt.  Avery
received this calmly.  He was used to it.  To do him justice, he did
not know how cross he was.  He was used to that, too.  And so was she.
The baby was ailing, besides, and things went hard.  The sick woman's
breath began to shorten again; and the coy color which had been so hard
to win to her lips fled from them unobserved.  The doctor was not
called; Helen Thorne was out of town; and so it happened that no one
noticed--for, as we say, Marshall Avery had the toothache.
One night he came home late, and as irritable as better men than he may
be, and be forgiven for it, for the sake of that species of modern
toothache in which your dentist neither extracts nor relieves, but
devotes his highly developed and unhappy ingenuity to the demonic
process which is known as "saving a tooth."
"He calls it killing a nerve," sputtered Avery.  "I should call it
killing a patient.  This performance is the Mauser bullet of up-to-date
dentistry.  It explodes all over you--  Oh, do let me alone, Jean!  You
can't do anything for me.  A man does n't want to be bothered.  Go and
lie down, and look after yourself.  Where is that hot water?  I asked
for alcohol--laudanum--some confounded thing.  Can't anybody in this
house do anything for me?  I don't trouble them very often."
"It's Molly's evening out," said Mrs. Avery patiently.  "I 'll get
everything as fast as I can, dear."  She was up and down stairs a good
deal; she did not notice, herself, how often.  And when she got to bed
at last, she cried--she could not help it.  It was something he had
said.  Oh, no matter what!  But she did not know how to bear it, for
she was so exhausted, and sobs, which were her mortal enemy, overcame
her as soon as she was alone.
He did not hear her, for the door was shut between their rooms, and he
was quite occupied with his Mauser bullet.  He had fallen into the
habit of shutting the door when the second baby was born; he maintained
that the boy was worse than Pink.  Pink cried like a lady, but the boy
bellowed like a megatherium.
A little before half-past ten she heard him get up and dress and stir
about.  He opened the door, and said, without coming in:--
"I 'm going to have this blank thing out.  I 'm going to Armstrong's
house.  I won't stand it another hour.  I 'll be home presently."
She tried to tell him how sorry she was, and to say some one of the
little loving, wifely things with whose warm, sun-penetrated atmosphere
she so enveloped his life that he took them as a matter of course.  It
is doubtful if he heard her altogether, for her voice was fainter than
usual.
"Won't you come in a minute?" she pleaded.  He did hear that.  But he
did not come.
"Oh, I can't stop now," he returned petulantly.  "I 'm in such blank
torment.  I 'll be back; I may go to the club afterwards, and play it
off at something, but I'll be back before midnight."
"Dear?" she called then, in an agitated voice; it was not like hers,
and not like her; if he had perceived this--but he perceived nothing.
"I don't feel quite well"--she tried to say.  But he was halfway
downstairs.  These five words wandered after him like the effort of a
dumb spirit to communicate with deaf life.
He thrust himself savagely into his overcoat, turned up the collar over
his toothache, slammed the front door, and went.
Jean listened to his footfall on the steps, on the sidewalk; the
nervous, irritable, uneven sound softened and ceased.  She was quite
awake, and her mind moved with feverish vitality.  She was usually a
good sleeper for a sick person; but that night she found herself too
ill for any form of rest.  The difficulty that she had in breathing
increased with an insidious slowness which she had learned to fear as
the most obstinate form of her malady.  The room grew empty of air.
The candle burned blue to her eyes.  The shutting of the front door
seemed like the shutting of that to which she would not give a name,
for terror's sake.  As her husband's footsteps passed from the power of
her strained ears to overtake them, she found herself wondering how
they would sound when they passed for the last time from her presence,
she lying under a load of flowers, with the final look of the sky
turned compassionately upon her.  Then she scorned herself--she was the
most healthy-minded invalid who ever surmounted the morbidness of
physical suffering--and thrust out her hands from her face, as if she
were thrusting a camera which was using defective plates away from her
brain.
"If he had only come in a minute!" she said, sobbing a little.  "If he
had only come in and kissed me good-night"--
She did not add: "He would have seen that I was too ill.  He would not
have left me."
The candle burned faintly, and grew more faint.  There seemed to be
smoke in the room.  The baby stirred in his crib, and Pink, from the
nursery, called, "Mummer dee!" in her sleep.  The air grew so dense
that it seemed to Jean to be packed about her like smothering wool.
She rang the electric bell for Molly, or she thought she did.  But
Molly did not answer, and the nursery door was shut.
There was nothing morbid in Jean's thoughts by this time; no more
gruesome vision; no touching situation whatever presented itself; she
did not see herself as a pathetic object; even her husband vanished
from her consciousness.  Kind or harsh--retreating footsteps or
returning arms--light laughter on his lips or true love in his
eyes--she thought of him not at all.  He disappeared from her emergency
like some diminishing figure that had fled from the field of a great
battle.  For the lonely woman knew now, at last, that she was wrestling
with mortal peril.  She had always wondered if she would know it from
its counterfeits when it really came--there were so many counterfeits!
She had asked, as all men ask, what it would be like.  A long
contention?  A short, sharp thrust?  Agony?  Stupor?  Struggle, or
calm?  Now she wondered not at all.  There was nothing dramatic or
exciting, or even solemn, in her condition.  All her being resolved
itself into the simple effort to get her breath.
Suddenly this effort ceased.  She had struggled up against the pillows
to call "Molly!  Molly!" when she found that she could not call Molly.
As if her head had been under water, the function of breathing battled,
and surrendered.  Then there befell her swiftly the most beatific
instant that she had ever known.
"I am tired out," she thought; "and I am going to sleep.  I did not
die, after all."  She was aware of turning her face, as her head
dropped back on her pillows, before she sank into ecstasy.
The night was fair and cool.  There was some wind, and the trees in the
Park winced under a glittering frost.  Avery noticed this as he hurried
to Dr. Armstrong's.  The leaves seemed to curl in a sensitive, womanish
fashion, as if their feelings had been hurt before they received their
death-stroke.
"It is the third of November," he thought.  His feet rang on the
sidewalk sharply, and he ran up the long steps with his gloved hand
held to his cheek.
Physical pain always made him angry.  He was irritable with Armstrong,
who had none too good a temper himself; and the two men sparred a
little before the dentist consented to remove the tooth.
Avery was surprised to find how short and simple an affair this was.
"I believe I 'll run into the Club," he observed as he put on his coat.
"Better go home," replied the dentist.  "No?  Then I 'll go along with
you."
The two men started out in silence.
Avery looked across at the wincing leaves on the trees of the Park.
The tower of the Church of the Happy Saints showed black against the
sky.  The club was only around the corner, and he was glad of it, for
the night felt unpleasantly cold to him; he shivered as he entered the
hot, bright, luxurious place; it was heavy with tobacco; the click of
billiard-balls and the clink of a glass sounded to his ear with a
curious distinctness above the laughter and the chat with which the
house seemed to rock and echo.
Romer was there--Tom Romer; and he was uncommonly glad to see Avery.
The two gentlemen, with Armstrong and another man, grouped upon a game
of billiards.  Romer proposed whist, but Armstrong said it was too late
for whist.  Avery did not say anything, and he played stupidly, and
after a while asked to be excused, and got up to go home.
"You 're looking fagged," observed Tom Romer, knocking the ashes from
his cigar artistically.  "You 're overworked.  Most of you professional
chaps are.  Come yachting with me, on the Dream.  We 're going to the
Sound after ducks.  Back in a week.  Start at seven o'clock to-morrow
morning.  Stay and put up here, and get off with me.  Oh!  I forgot.
You 're one of those married men."
"Yes," replied Avery, with a consciousness of superior virtue.  "I
could n't go without saying good-by to my wife.  I wouldn't think of it
for a moment," he added loftily.  "Give me a minute, Romer, to think it
over, will you?"
He strolled to the window, and looked out at the waters of the black
river which rushed whirling past the rear of the clubhouse.  It
occurred to him that Armstrong watched him anxiously.  But Armstrong
did not speak.
"I 'll go--thanks!" said Avery, coming back, with his hands in his
pockets.  "I 'll get word to the office; they can manage without me,
somehow--that is, if you 'll promise to get me back in a week?"
"I 'll set you ashore at the back yard of this club six days from
to-morrow," answered Romer.  "The Dream 's a dandy," added the
yachtsman, swelling a little.  "She can do it."
Avery replied absently, and hurriedly started for home.  In fact, he
ran most of the way (Dr. Armstrong could not keep up with him), for he
was shocked to find that it was now one o'clock.
"Poor Jean!" he thought; "I stayed too long."  Then he remembered for
the first time that he had got to tell Jean that he was going.  It
occurred to him for a moment that he would rather give up going with
Romer than tell Jean.  But it was now too late to do that.
"You see," he said, stopping for Armstrong to overtake him, "I 've
got to go, now."  But Armstrong did not reply; he turned in at his
own house with a manner which his friend felt to be superfluous.  Avery
experienced a certain resentment against the dentist.  He was relieved
to be alone, and walked more slowly.
When he came into his own hall, the house was perfectly still.  He took
off his shoes, and tiptoed upstairs, pausing at the door of his wife's
room.  She was sleeping so soundly that she did not hear him--an
unusual circumstance, for Jean, though a good sleeper, as we said, was
a light one.  The husband was conscious that he had fallen on better
chance than he deserved.  He had expected to find her awake, and more
or less nervous over his belated return.
"What luck!" he thought.  Yes, he was really very glad that Jean was
asleep, poor girl.  She would take it hard--to-morrow.  He moved about
like a cat, packing his valise.  He had several letters to write,
too,--one to his partner, one or two to clients, and one--well, why
not?  Why not write one to his wife?  It would obviate a great deal of
trouble on both sides; in fact, it would save him so much that he
persuaded himself, without undue difficulty, that it would save her
too.  So he wrote the letter.  It was a very affectionate letter.  It
set forth in the tenderest terms his devotion to her, and to her true
interests, which, plainly, would be best served by some attention to
his own health; he was really overworked; the Electric case had got
where it could be left for a few days, and he would distinctly be gone
but a few days; he promised her that--a week at the outside--and she
was always so glad to have him get any sort of a vacation.  He felt
sure that he could count upon her sympathy in going.  He would think of
her constantly, and fly back to her with that constant--etc.--faithful,
true, and tender--etc.--etc.  He had to start so early in the morning
that he would not wake her up.  He would  telegraph  her from the first
port they made.  She must remember that the yacht was as safe as a
Cunarder; they were only going  to the Sound.  He said nothing about
ducks or guns.  He gave her a Cape address to which she could send any
message she chose.  She must not get nervous.  She must take the best
care of herself for his sake.  And he was her devoted husband.
He slipped this letter under her door--slept a few hours--and waked at
five.  At half-past five he crept downstairs, his valise in his hand,
and his heart in his throat.  He heard Pink talking and grinding her
teeth in her sleep; but Jean did not stir, thank Heaven.  He slid out
of the front door like a burglar, and ran.  It was a brisk morning, and
promised to be a fresh southwesterly.  He walked a little way in the
direction of the club.  Abruptly he stopped, turned, and ran back.
"It would n't do," he said; "I must see her; I must if the Dream sails
without me.  Let her sail!" he added.  He pushed open the front door,
and rushed noisily upstairs.
The family was astir; the baby was crying; Pink was trotting about the
upper hall, unnoticed, in her little nightgown and bare feet.  He did
not hear Jean's voice, but Molly's struck upon his ear in an agitated,
incoherent manner.  He went in through his own room; he was relieved to
find that the letter under the door had not been disturbed.  He caught
it up, and slipped it swiftly into his pocket.
"It would not have done at all," he thought.  He felt ashamed of
himself that he had ever supposed for a moment it would have done.  He
really felt very thankful that he had decided to come back and break
the news to her in person.  It occurred to him that it was the least he
could do under the circumstances.  With a certain self-satisfaction on
his face, he pushed his way into his wife's room.
Jean was not on the bed; she was lying on the lounge, across whose blue
pillow he saw that the white silk Spanish shawl he gave her was tossed
in a disorderly way.  The lace frill of her nightdress was torn open at
the throat.  Her abundant yellow hair was loose, and partly concealed
her face.  She was imperfectly covered with a blanket that she had
dragged with her from her bed in some desperate endeavor, whose pitiful
story might never be known, to summon help.
"I did n't hear me bell!" cried Molly.  "An' there she do be lyin' when
I come in."
"Jean!" called Avery loudly; "Jean!"
PART II
At the claim of his voice she responded; smiling, she stirred.  He
could not help remembering how she had once said, "If I were dead, I
should answer you if you called me, Marshall."  And for the moment, she
had looked--but it was not death.
She opened her large eyes and regarded him--strangely, he thought, for
the instant; then with the lambent look which belonged to Jean, and
quite steadily.  He knelt by her, and drew the blanket up, and buttoned
the nightdress at her throat with clumsy fingers.
"I have come back to say"--he began.  But he could not say it.  "Have
you had an ill turn?" he temporized.
"I don't know," said Jean.
"How did you happen to be on the lounge?"
"I don't know," repeated Jean.
"Are you suffering, dear?"
"I fell asleep," said Jean, after some thought.
"Don't you remember when you got out of bed?"
"I have had a wonderful sleep," said Jean.  "I never had anything of
the kind before.  It was like heaven."
"Are you suffering now?"
"No--I think not--no.  I feel pretty weak.  But I am not suffering."
"Shall I call the doctor?"
"I sha'n't need the doctor.  I don't want ... I don't need anybody but
you."
She turned and put her hand to his cheek.  Her long hair fell away from
her face and revealed its expression; he turned his own away at sight
of it.
"How early you are dressed!" she said, in a different tone.
"I was going out," he stammered.  "I was--going away."
"Oh!  Going!  Where are you going?"
"I won't, if you don't want me to."
"You did n't say where you were going."
"Well, you see--Romer asked me to take a little trip with him.  He
thought I looked fagged out.  He starts in--Jove!  He starts in twenty
minutes."
"And you have n't had any breakfast!" said Jean; her divine
self-oblivion pushed to the front,--a trained soldier.  But her chin
trembled in a touching fashion that she had when she was too much
grieved to say so, or too weak to admit that she was grieved.
He had risen from his knees and stood beside her, looking down.  Her
weakness and her loveliness seemed to lift themselves towards him like
pleading things which he thrust off.  He felt uncomfortable and
irresolute.  He was conscious of trying not to look annoyed.
"You are going in a boat?" she asked, very faintly now.
"Well--yes--a sort of boat."  Avery fumbled fatuously.  "It's quite a
safe one," he added.  "And Romer says"--  He began to tell her what
Romer said.
"And guns?" she whispered.  "There will be guns?"
"Oh, I presume Tom has a gun," replied the husband, with what he felt
to be an ingenious veracity.  "You know I 'm no shot.  I don't like
guns much better than you do, dear....  I 'm getting late," he observed
abruptly.  "But I won't go, Jean, if you don't want me to.  I thought
it might set me up a little," he added, before she could reply.
In fact, she did not seem to incline to reply, or did not feel able to
do so; he could not tell which.  She lay looking up at him quite
steadily.  Molly had taken both the children into the nursery, and the
two were alone.  A clock ticked on the mantel in a loud, irritating
tone.  The white silk Spanish shawl which had fallen from the lounge
hung to his coat-sleeve; it was a delicate thing, and the fringe clung
like tendrils; he had to tear it off roughly.
He bethought him to wrap the shawl about her when he had done this, for
she seemed to be cold.  As he bent to perform for her this little
service--which was offered with an obtrusive tenderness--he stooped and
kissed her throat.  The soft, sweet flesh quivered at his touch.  Jean
raised her weak arms and clasped them about his neck.  But they fell
back instantly, as if the action had hurt her.
"Come, dear," he resumed hurriedly.  "Shall I go--or not?"
"I don't feel quite well," faltered Jean.  "I think--I slept too
long--that heavenly sleep ... last night"--
"I 'll go and tell Romer I can't go," said Avery shortly.  He started,
and went half across the room, then paused.  "Well, Jean?" he
suggested.  Jean did not reply.  She was lying just as he had left her,
with her arms fallen at her sides, her bright hair brushed back from
her face, which looked strangely prominent and large.  There was that
in her eyes which a man would not have refused in a dog.  The husband
returned impetuously to her side.
"Poor Jean!  I won't go.  Really I won't.  I 'll do just as you
say--truly I will.  Won't you say, Jean?  Won't you express a wish?"
But Jean shook her head.  The time had come when she had no wish to
express; and she seemed not to have the strength to express even the
fact that she had none.
"If you think it best ... for you" ...  The words were inarticulate.
"I really do," urged Avery uncomfortably.  "At least, I did--that is,
unless you are actually too ill to spare me....  How is a man to know?"
he muttered, not thinking she would hear.
"Good-by," breathed Jean.  She did not try to lift her arms this time.
He stooped and kissed her affectionately.  Her lips clung to his.  But
her eyes clung longer than her lips.  They clasped him until he felt
that if he did not throw them off, he could not get away.
Across the room he paused.  "I 'll send Thorne," he said.  "I 'll send
the doctor.  I can't go unless I feel quite safe about you.  And I 'll
call Molly as I go down."
He tried to add something about telegrams, and how short a trip it was,
and so on.  But Jean's eyes silenced him.  Solemn, mute, distant, they
looked upon him like the eyes of an alien being moving through the
experiences of an unknown world.  For a moment their expression
appalled him; it was not reproach; it was scarcely to be called
anguish; rather a fine and tragic astonishment, for which speech would
have been too coarse a medium.  But he shut the door, caught Pink, who
was crying for her breakfast, kissed the child, and went.
As he stepped out into the street, the morning air struck him a slap in
the face.  The wind was rising, and it hit him hard in the breast, as
if it had the mind to push him back.  He forced his way against it, and
reached the club out of breath and with suffused face, as if he were
blushing.  He flung an order at the desk:--
"Telephone for Dr. Thorne.  Tell him Mrs. Avery is n't feeling quite as
well as usual, and I am unfortunately called away.  He 'd better go
right over to the house."
He dashed into the dining-room, poured out a cup of coffee, and hurried
to the river-wall.  The Dream lay off in mid-stream--a white
seventy-footer schooner-rigged, with a new suit of sails that presented
an almost startling brightness in the early morning light.  The tender
was already manned, and rowed in impatiently at his signal.  He was
fifteen minutes late.  He said nothing to the crew, assuming the ready
lordliness of a poor man who had never owned and would never own a
yacht, but apologized rather unnecessarily to Romer when he got aboard,
explaining the circumstances with more minuteness than was necessary.
"Why, great Scott, man!" said Romer.  "I 'd have waited for you another
day--any number of them--if Mrs. Avery lifted an eyelash.  Put you
ashore now, if you say so."
But Avery shook his head magnanimously.  The yacht slipped her mooring
and swung slowly into the channel, careened under the strong westerly,
and slid away.  It was uncommon for pleasure boats of the Dream's class
to anchor in the river, but it had been Romer's whim; if he did not
value playing le bon prince at the club, he liked to do the uncommon
with his yacht; he amused himself and his guest with the laggard
process of getting out into the bay, pointing out the picturesqueness
gained at the expense of time and trouble, and making himself
entertaining--as Romer could--with the vivacity of a sportsman and the
ingenuity of an accomplished host.  Marshall Avery was not talkative,
and replied with effort.
"We 'll have breakfast as soon as we 're through the draw," said Romer.
It occurred to Avery that it would be impossible to eat.  He sat with
his eyes fixed on the housetops of the West End.  In the early air and
color this decorous section had a misty and gracious effect, half
mysterious, wholly uncharacteristic of that architectural commonplace.
There was the tower of the Church of the Happy Saints.  And three
blocks beyond--Molly would be just about bringing up the tray, and
setting it on the invalid table beside the blue lounge.
"Somebody 's driving up back of the club," observed Tom Romer.  "It's a
buggy--looks a little like Thorne's, does n't it?  Has those top wings.
It's stopped at the river-wall."  He handed the marine glass to his
guest.
"All those doctors' buggies are alike," replied Avery.  "I can't see
very well," he added.  In fact, the glass shook in his hand.
The yacht slipped through the draw comfortably, and headed to the
harbor.  The club, the river-wall, the buggy, vanished from the glass.
The two gentlemen went below to breakfast.  When they came on deck
again, the Dream was easily clearing the harbor and making out to sea.
The wind was fair, and the yacht fled under full canvas.
"She walks right along!" cried Romer.  He was exhilarated by the speed
of his boat, which was, in fact, a racer, and built in all her lines to
get over a triangular course in the least possible time.  He talked
about her safe points to the landsman (who responded with the
satisfaction of ignorance), but the final end of the Dream's being was
speed, unqualified by inferior considerations.  To this American idol,
boats, like men, are sacrificed as matters of course.  One scarcely
makes conversation on so obvious a topic.
To tell the truth, Avery was not especially fond of yachting, and the
careening of the Dream under the pleasant westerly did not arouse in
him that enthusiasm which, somehow, he had expected to experience on
this trip.  When the water ran over the rail, he changed his seat to
windward.  When it rushed over, he held on to something.  Tom Romer
chaffed him amiably.
"Why, this is only a fair sailing day!" he cried.  "Wait till it
breezes up."
"Oh, I shall enjoy it if it comes," replied the lawyer.  In fact, he
was enjoying nothing.  His thoughts surged like the water through which
the yacht was driving.  Their depth was enveloped and disguised in
foam.  When Romer said proudly, "She's making twelve knots!" his guest
reflected, "I 'm so much farther away from her."
The same personal pronoun answered for the sportsman and the husband.
Before the Dream was off Plymouth, the little cruise had assumed the
proportions of an Atlantic voyage to the landsman's imagination.
By noon he remembered that in his hurry to get off he had made no
definite provision with Jean about telegrams from, but only for
messages to her.  All that was arranged in the note, but he had torn up
the note.  With that leisurely appreciation of unpleasant facts which
is so natural to the sanguine, and so incomprehensible by the anxious
temperament, it occurred to him in the course of the afternoon that his
wife had seemed much less well than usual when he bade her good-by; in
fact, that he had never seen her look precisely as she did that
morning.  He began to acknowledge distinctly to himself that he wished
he knew how she was.
He grew definitely uneasy as the early autumn twilight dulled the color
of the water and the horizon of the distant shore.  They were well on
the Shoals now, for the breeze was stiff, and the yacht ran at a
spanking pace.  The wind was not going down with the sun, but rose
strongly.  The landsman began to be a little seasick, which somehow
added to his moral discomfort.
"How can I get a telegram off?" he asked abruptly, much in the tone in
which he would have called for a district messenger in the court-house.
"Oh, I might tap a cable for you, I suppose," returned his host, with
twitching mustache.  "Look here," added Romer.  "What is it--mal de
mer? or nostalgia?  Do you want to be put ashore?"
"Not at all," replied Avery, with the pugnacity which men are
accustomed to mistake for high ethical obligations to their own sex.
"I only want to get a message to my wife.  You see, I promised her."
"We 'll run into Wood's Hole in the morning, by all means," said Romer
cordially.  "It's a great place for ducks, anyhow, off there."
"Oh--ducks?" repeated Avery stupidly.  He had forgotten that they came
to kill ducks.
"We 're goin' to have a breeze o' wind," observed one of the crew, who
was lowering the jib-topsail.
"I'd like to take the dispatch myself, when we get there, if I may,"
the seasick lawyer hazarded, somewhat timidly.  But next morning, when
the Dream dropped anchor off Wood's Hole, and the tender was lowered,
he was flat in his berth.  He could not take the dispatch, and a detail
of two from the crew bounced off with it, pounding over the choppy sea.
The frail and fashionable tender looked like one of the little Florida
shells that are sold by the quart; there was now a considerable sea;
the yacht herself was pretty wet.  Romer was in excellent spirits.
"We might get a duck or two before breakfast, if it isn't too rough,"
he suggested.  "Sorry you 're laid up."
"Oh--ducks?" repeated Avery again.  He wished he could have a chance
to forget that he had left his wife too ill to lift her head, and had
come wallowing out here to kill ducks.
"I can't remember that a duck ever did me any harm," he said savagely,
aloud.
He heard the occasional report of guns over his head with a sense of
personal injury.  Nobody hit any ducks, and he was glad of it.  The
Dream cruised about, he did not know where.  He had ceased to feel any
interest in her movements.  He did not even ask where they had anchored
for the night.  The wind rose steadily throughout the day.  As the
force of the blow increased, his physical miseries ascended and his
moral consciousness declined.  His anxiety for his wife blurred away in
a befuddled sense of his own condition.
"I don't believe she's any worse off than I am," he thought.  This
reflection gave him some comfort.  He slept again that night the
shattered sleep of the seasick and unhappy, and woke with a cry.
A port-hole of gray dawn darkened by green waters was in the stateroom,
which seemed to be standing on its experienced and seaworthy head.  The
yacht was keeling and pitching weakly.  Tom Romer stood beside the
berth, looking at his guest; he did not smile.  It was an uncommon
thing to see Tom Romer without a smile.  The yachtsman wore oilskins
and a sou'wester, and dripped with salt water like a Grand Banker.
"God!  Romer, what's the matter?"  Avery got to his feet at once.  He
forgot that he was seasick.  His bodily distresses fled before the
swift, strong lash of fright.
"The fact is," replied Romer slowly, "we 've struck a confounded
gale--a November gale," he added.  "It's turned easterly.  She 's
been dragging her anchor since two.  Now"--
"Now what?" demanded Avery sharply.  He staggered into his clothes
without waiting for an answer.
"Well--we 've snapped our road."
"Road?"  The landsman struggled to recall his limited stock of nautical
phrases.  "That's the rope you tie your anchor to?  Oh!  What are you
going to do?" he asked, with unnatural humility.  The fatal
helplessness of ignorance overwhelmed him.  If he ever lived to get
back, he would turn the tables, and conduct Romer through a complicated
lawsuit.
"Run into the Sound if I can," returned Romer.  "It won't do to get
caught on some of these shoals round here."
"Of course not," replied Avery, who did not know a shoal from a siren.
"Say, Romer, what's the amount of danger?  Out with it!"
"Oh, she's good for it," said the yachtsman lightly.  Then his voice
and manner changed.  His insouciant black eyes peered suddenly at his
guest as if from a small, keen, marine lens.
"Say,  old fellow," he said slowly, "I hope there was n't any sort of a
quarrel,--you know,--any domestic unpleasantness, before you came on
this trip?  I wish to blank I 'd left you ashore."
"Quarrel?  A demon could n't quarrel with my wife!" exploded Avery.
"That was my impression," returned his host.  "Beg pardon, Avery.  You
see--to be honest, I can't say exactly how we 're coming out of this.
There are several things which might happen.  I thought"--the sportsman
stammered, and stopped.
"If you should pull through and I should n't," said Avery, lifting a
gray face,--"I 'm not a swimmer, and you are,--tell her I 'd give my
immortal soul if I had n't left her.  Tell her--I--God!  Romer, she was
very sick!  She did n't want me to go."
"I 've always thought," said the bachelor, "that if I had a wife--a
woman like that"--  His face hardened perceptibly, dripping under his
sou'wester.  "You fellows don't know what you 've got," he added
abruptly.  He scrambled up the companionway without looking back.
Avery followed him abjectly.
At this moment the yacht groaned, grated, and keeled suddenly.  Water
poured over the rail.  The deck rang with cries.  Avery got up, and
held on to something.  It proved to be the main-sheet.  It ran through
his fingers like a saw, and escaped.  Confusedly he heard the mate
crying:--
"We 've struck, sir!  She 's stove in!"
"Well," replied the owner coolly, "get the boats over, then."
He did not look at his guest.  Avery looked at the water.  It seemed to
leap up after him, hike a beast amused with a ghastly play.  Oddly, he
recalled at that moment coming in one day--it was after she knew what
ailed her--and finding Jean with a book face down on her lap.  He
picked it up and read, "The vision of sudden death."  He had laughed
at her, and scolded her for filling her mind with such things.
"You don't quite understand, dear," she had answered.
"Come," said Romer, whose remarkable self-possession somehow increased
rather than diminished Avery's alarm, "we have n't as much time to
spare as I would like.  Hold hard there while Mr. Avery gets aboard!"
The tender was prancing like a mustang on a prairie, for there was
really a swamping sea.  The landsman was clumsy and nervous, missed his
footing, and fell.
As he went under he cried, in a piercing voice, "Tell my wife"--
When the water drove into his throat and lungs, he thought how he had
seen her fight for her breath, patiently, hours at a time.  She had
told him once that it was like drowning.
It was two days after this that a man who attracted some attention
among the passengers got off the Shore train at the old station in the
city.
Marshall Avery seemed to himself to see this man as if he saw another
person, and felt a curious interest in his appearance and movements.
The man was dressed in borrowed clothes that did not fit; his face was
haggard and heavily lined; he had no baggage, and showed some
excitement of manner, calling several hackmen at once, and berating the
one he selected for being too slow.  A kind of maniacal hurry possessed
him.
"Drive for your life!" he said.  He did not lean back in the carriage,
but sat up straight, as if he could not spare time to be comfortable.
When the hack door slammed Avery saw the man no more, but seemed to
crouch and crawl so far within his personality that it was impossible
to observe the traveler from the outside.
Avery had never in his life before been in the throat of death, and
been spewed out, like a creature unwelcome, unfit to die.  The rage of
the gale was in his ears yet; the crash of the waves seemed to crush
his chest in.  Occasionally he wiped his face or throat, as if salt
water dashed on it still.  He had made up his mind definitely--he would
never tell Jean the details.  She would not be able to bear them.  It
might do her a harm.  He would simply say that the yacht got caught in
a blow, and struck, and that the tender brought him ashore.  She would
not understand what this meant.  Why should she know that he went
overboard in the process?  Or what a blank of a time they had to fish
him out?  Or even to bring him to, for that matter?  Why tell her how
long the tender had tossed about like a chip  in  that whirlpool?  It
was unnecessary to explain hell to her.  To say, "We snapped an oar; we
had to scull in a hurricane," would convey little idea to her.  And she
would be so distressed that one of the crew was lost.  The Dream was
sunk.  Romer had remained on the Cape to try to recover the body of his
mate.  He, Marshall Avery, her husband, had been saved alive, and had
come back to her.  What else concerned, or, indeed, what else could
interest her?  In ten minutes nothing would interest either of them,
except that he had her in his arms again....  Jean!  He thrust his face
out of the hack window and cried:--
"Drive faster, man!  I 'm not going to a funeral."
The driver laid the whip on and put the horse to a gallop.  The
passenger leaned back on the cushions now for the first time and drew a
full breath.
"Jean!" he repeated, "Jean!  Jean!"
The tower of the Church of the Happy Saints rose before his straining
eyes against the cold November sky.  It was clear and sunny after the
storm; bleak, though.  He shivered a little as he came in sight of the
club.  A sick distaste for the very building overcame him.  A flash of
the river where the Dream had anchored glittered between the houses.
He turned away his face.  He thought:--
"I wonder when she got the telegrams?"  The first one must have reached
her by noon of the second day out.  This last, sent by night delivery
from the little Cape village where the shipwrecked party had landed (he
had routed out the operator from his bed to do it)--this last telegram
ought to have found her by breakfast-time.  She would know by now that
he was safe.  She might have had--well, admit that she must have had
some black hours.  Possibly the papers--but he had seen no papers.  It
had been a pity about the telephone.  He had searched everywhere for
the Blue Bell.  He had found one in a grocery, but the tempest had
gnawed the long-distance wire through.  He would tell her all about it
now in six minutes--in five--poor Jean!
No--stop.  He would carry her some flowers.  It would take but a
minute.  She thought so much of such little attentions.  The driver
reined up sharply at the corner florist's; it was Avery's own florist,
but the salesman was a stranger, a newcomer.  He brought a dozen
inferior tea-roses out with an apology.
"Sorry, sir, but they are all we have left.  We 've been sending
everything to Mr. Avery's."
Avery stared at the man stupidly.  Was Jean entertaining?  Some ladies'
lunch?  Then she was much better.  Or was she so ill that people were
sending flowers, as people do, for lack of any better way of expressing
a useless sympathy?  He felt his hands and feet turn as cold as the
seas of Cape Cod.
"Drive slower," he said.  But the fellow did not hear him, and the hack
rushed on.  At the passenger's door it stopped with a lurch.  Avery got
out slowly.  The house looked much as usual, except that a shade in
Jean's bedroom was drawn.  It was just the hour when she sometimes
tried to sleep after an ill night.  The husband trod softly up the long
steps.  He felt for his latch-key, but remembered that he had never
seen it since he went overboard.  He turned to ring the bell.
As he did so something touched his hand disagreeably; a gust of
November wind twisted it around and around his wrist.  Avery threw the
thing off with a cry of horror.
He had leaned up heavily against the door, and when Molly opened it
suddenly, he well-nigh fell into the house.
"Oh, sir!" said Molly.  She had been crying, and looked worn.  He stood
with his tea-roses in his hand staring at her; he did not speak.  He
heard the baby crying in the nursery, and Pink's little feet trotting
about somewhere.  The house was heavy with flowers,--roses, violets,
tuberoses,--a sickening mixture of scents.  He tried several times to
speak, but his dry throat refused.
"What's happened?" he managed to demand at last, fiercely, as if that
would help anything.
"The doctor's here.  He 'll tell you, sir," said Molly.  She did not
