gra’mere is very poorly. Father Antoine was there 
nearly all night. One comes and another goes.” 
“It is not so hard to die when you are very old, is it, 
Jaques?” 
It would seem very hard for her to die this morning. 
“Well, I don’t know, Mam’selle. I’m not very old,” 
and Jaques’s face settled into humorous gleams. 
She ran around gayly. But she missed Hylas. Telano 
seemed asking where he was. Oh, it was hard to be for- 
gotten all in a moment. 
Angelique was sitting in a little arbor sewing leisurely, 
that is, taking a few stitches and then looking down on 
her English book. 
“Come and let us read together,” she said. “The 
others have gone for a whole long day to see the town 
and the lakes, and we shall have to amuse ourselves. 
Claire has a little girl — we must make her something 
pretty.” 
Sylvie tried hard to preserve her anger, but Ange- 
lique’s tone was so persuasive. And then — was she really 
vexed with Angel ? The smile was as sweet as the roses 
blowing about. The child came and kissed her. ‘‘Oh, 
you are reading verses. Read aloud.” 
“Suppose you read. They are very simple with no 
long words in them.” 
“Why, I have never seen this book before !” 
“No,” returned Angelique softly, but why she should 
blush about it puzzled Sylvie. 
It was a little volume of English verse that Norton 
had brought from the East. “You may like it as a 
reading exercise,” he said, in an ordinary fashion that 
took off the air of a gift. 
“Oh, dear, I make so many blunders !” Sylvie laughed 
merrily at herself. 
But they both agreed the poems were very sweet and 
charming. 
“Angel ” after a pause — “did you like that — that 
new Monsieur?” 
“Cousin Hugh?” with a cordial smile. 
Sylvie nodded. 
“I liked him better at breakfast. And he looks quite 
like the Marquise. He is very thin. Some flesh would 
improve him.” 
“He is very ugly.” 
“He is not very handsome,” assented Angel, with 
a smile, for she was thinking of the contrast between him 
and the American. 
“I shall never like him,” confidently. 
“Sylvie, do not be such an unreasonable little child. 
But you do not need to like him.” 
Sylvie glanced out of upbraiding eyes. 
“We must let all those old things go, dear. The Mar- 
quise thought she was acting for the best, and perhaps 
she did. I knew him when I was a little girl like you, 
and Gervaise was very fond of him.” 
'‘Why didn’t he marry you.” 
Angelique drew in her breath to keep the scarlet out of 
her face. She would have been glad enough then; now 
she asked ten times that happiness. 
“And had you and your fortune hidden away in a 
convent. You might have been made a nun whether you 
liked it or not.” 
A shudder ran over Sylvie. This had been done to 
save her, she understood that. 
“But it was wicked in Gervaise to — to make believe. 
And always to let me think ” 
“He has been trying very hard not to make believe. 
He loves you just as he always did.” 
They went to feed the swans and gather some fruit. 
There were a few late oranges that were full of ripening 
flavor. There were others just coming into blooming, 
fruit-setting, they seemed to keep at it most of the year 
round. 
What a long, long day it was ! In the evening a soft 
shower came pattering down on the leaves with a musical 
sound. Sylvie lay in her little bed listening to it, for she 
was not sleepy, and wondering about her life. She still 
felt very sore that Gervaise had not — well, had not loved 
her. Girls did not love first. And yet she had loved 
fondly, strongly, jealously, and she thought she had a 
right, when really she had no right at all. It was very 
hard to be deceived. 
She was up quite early the next morning and went 
down to feed the swans and the herons. Monsieur de 
Brienne stood just beyond the great fig-tree culling some 
of its fruit. Sylvie stopped short. 
“Little Sylvie,” said the voice that had a kind of com- 
manding accent in it, “come here and speak to me. I am 
your third-cousin, I think your mother was my second- 
cousin.” 
'‘Oh, did you know my mother ” 
“We were almost of an age. I used to be at Chatilly 
Court when I was a boy. Yes, I was very fond of your 
mother.” 
“And my papa?” 
“I never saw much of him. After they were married 
he went to Italy and she rejoined him. A soldier’s wife 
she was. But your good Barbe can tell you much more. 
She was with her all the time. And when she came to 
Brienne I had just started for America.” 
She was crumbling bread to the swans. Yes, Barbe 
had promised to tell her all this some day when she was 
older, so why should she ask anything of him? 
“Sylvie,” he said presently, wondering at her sudden 
loss of interest and her silence. “I want you to trust me. 
I mean to be your best friend. And you must not hate 
me for what I really had no hand in. Now that I have 
studied it all over it can easily be undone. And you must 
consider yourself quite free until the law makes you so.” 
Sylvie hung her head. She was in no hurry to be won 
over. And looking at him from under her long lashes 
she felt a little afraid of his stern face. The men she 
had come to know best were so affable and smiling; 
Henri and Gervaise were so merry. 
“Yes — I want to be your friend — I want you to trust 
me,” he repeated. 
She had been trusting everybody and the trust had been 
pettishly. “I do not care for anything.” 
“I shall try to get back your fortune ” 
“I do not care for any fortune,” she made answer 
pettishly “I do not care for anything.” 
“Oh, you will in two or three years.” 
She straightened her figure; she compressed her lips 
that were like the opening leaf of a rosebud. ‘T have 
fed all my crumbs/’ and she turned to go in. 
“What a perverse little thing,” he said to himself. 
CHAPTER XIX. 
A NEW INHERITANCE. 
Soon after breakfast word was sent down that 
gra’mere had died in the night. 
“I must go up,” Gervaise said at once. “Cousin 
Hugh, come for the walk.” 
“With pleasure,” was the answer. 
“And they will spend an hour with Zenobie,” thought 
the jealous little girl. 
After their call of condolence, and they saw no one but 
Madame Lavalette, they took another long ramble. 
Gervaise had made no proffer of reconciliation. He had 
said good-morning to her and she had not replied, except 
with an indifferent nod of the head. 
How lovely it was that glowing autumn morning, the 
blazing splendor of the sun tempered by the shades in the 
luxuriant foliage. 
“It is a magnificent country !” cried Hugh, roused to 
enthusiasm. “Oh, I do not wonder that even the first 
settlers were struck with its richness. And I can see 
how they could fancy there was gold in the yellow sands. 
But it is not gold alone that makes a prosperous 
country. The northeast looks barren to this, but the art 
and industry of man coin it into profit. They have no 
dreams of gold-mines in their rugged soil.” 
“It was largely a Spanish dream,” returned Gervaise, 
smiling. “The Frenchman thinks more of his home. 
You must see what the Acadians have done.” 
“I saw what they had left,” with a little grimness. 
“Theirs was a cruel removal. I went first to Canada, 
you know. After my next journey I think I shall be 
content to settle down.” 
“You will not remain in France?” 
“Oh, no. I am curiously interested in seeing this 
country work out the large problems it has undertaken. 
I have not much faith in the Consulate.” 
“You think there will be another revolution?” Ger- 
vaise questioned in surprise. 
“No. The mailed hand is too strong. The ambition 
is too soaring to rest here. Napoleon will never make 
a Washington. As for my own estate, I expect little of 
that. But I shall try to get something for Sylvie. 
Gervaise ” 
He looked steadily at the young fellow. He liked him 
very much. All the fondness for the bright boyish 
comrade of years ago had returned. If he could marry 
Sylvie when the unfortunate complication had been 
brought to naught ! 
“I understand you, Hugh,” and he flushed scarlet. 
“But — there is some one else, and she is such a child. 
With a fortune she will have no lack of lovers. It would 
really be unfair to take advantage of this youthful 
penchant.” 
“Perhaps so. I wish you all success.” Yet Hugh 
sighed for little Sylvie’s sake. And it would be agree- 
able to have the branches of the family thus united. 
“You do not care to go to France with me?” 
'I ought not leave them alone. How do we know 
but another attempt may be made to obtain possession of 
Sylvie ?” 
“True. Well, perhaps it is fortunate that I have a 
husband’s authority. Did you ever see a person more 
nonplussed than Father Gilbert? He was a good man, 
a devoted missionary. The Indian woman, Wenonah, 
was a devout Catholic. I think she saved me from the 
enemy, as well as brought me back to life. And she 
thought me dying when the priest came in. I do not re- 
member anything of the ceremony, but it comforted her 
immeasurably. And with this contract or assignment, 
they certainly would have had a right to the child and her 
property. So you need not regret that you stood in my 
place. It will all come right for her.” 
But the child-woman was not to be so easily placated. 
She could be politely indifferent to De Brienne, for she 
stood a little in awe of him, but she had dozens of sharp- 
pointed arrows for Gervaise ; indeed, she bristled all over 
with them. 
There was the funeral at the Lavalettes’, a very im- 
posing affair that would have rejoiced the little old lady 
who had rounded out her century and who unknowingly 
had ended with the foreign domination of the province 
to which she had come a hesitating stranger, and led a 
long and happy life. 
For events were marching on rapidly. While the 
French were watching with bated breath for the promised 
restoration to their own land, which was after all more 
a matter of sentiment than any forerunner of prosperity, 
instead of General Victor came a vessel from Bordeaux 
with the official announcement that the whole province 
had been ceded to the United States for a money con- 
sideration. Again they had been sold by a French ruler. 
The last of November the whole town was astir. The 
Place d’Armes glittered with troops and resounded with 
salvos of artillery. The inefficient old man, Don John 
Manuel de Salcedo, perhaps no unfit representative, in 
his infirm old age, of the once powerful kingdom that 
had terrorized the world and was now fast losing its 
grasp on its colonies, met the French Laussat and de- 
livered to him the keys of New Orleans. The Marquis 
of Casa Calvo declared the people absolved from all 
allegiance to Spain. 
And now from the flagstaff slowly descended the 
colors of Spain, that had flaunted defiance and rule for 
thirty-five years, that had claimed jurisdiction over the 
mighty Mississippi, hampered commerce, endeavored to 
shut out the new, rising nation on its westward march 
of civilization. The French flag went up. There was 
some ignorant rejoicing, many cheers for the beloved 
tricolor, much shaking of heads and muttering under 
one’s breath what it was not advisable to say aloud. 
Twenty days later the ceremony was repeated. The 
young Virginian, Governor Claiborne, appointed by 
President Jefferson, and his aide. General Wilkinson, 
received from Laussat in the name of Bonaparte, ruler 
of France, the keys of the port, the authority of the whole 
magnificent territory, and the town of New Orleans was 
American. Down slowly came the tricolor, but up went 
another, the Stars and Stripes. 
There was little rejoicing. There were those who 
recalled the advent of O’Reilly, when the flag had been 
lowered, and the strong hand of Spanish law brought 
death and banishment for many. But now they made no 
appeal to France. The humiliation of a price — eighty 
million francs — the being cast off a second time niade 
their shame, as they thought, complete. They were in the 
hands of new masters, why should they rejoice? 
And they were not in love with their new masters, 
the restless, pushing Americans. There were militia 
companies parading the streets, there were American 
appointees in offices, there were new courts, new ways, and 
the barbarous English tongue was heard everywhere. 
Creole indigation, overflowed, but did not run to riot 
except in unimportant instances, in a cabaret quarrel and 
fight, or at a French ball. 
But old New Orleans was slowly to fade away. Even 
now the picturesque quaint foreign town was overflow- 
ing its boundaries. Streets stretched out and were 
building up, even if they were unpaved and poorly 
lighted. Stores increased, warehouses multiplied, and 
the town was fast becoming what its destiny had been 
from the first, a commercial seaport. So many restric- 
tions were removed that trade took leaps and bounds. 
There was a splendid future to the town. 
Yet the Creoles stood a little apart. To be sure, they 
accepted office, they loaned money when they had it. 
The old Jesuit plantations, where the first sugar-cane had 
been tried and failed, had been confiscated years before 
and were now laid out in streets. The Faubourg St. 
Mary seemed to build up by the hour. Even the old 
Carondelet Canal, half choked with debris, was busy 
enough. Lake Maurepas, lakes Borgne and Pontchar- 
train were dotted with trading-craft, docks, and wharves. 
And farther down all was activity. 
In the town itself the little cabins with their ill-lighted 
stores were replaced by brick buildings or those of sub- 
stantial frame or plaster. And though the old native 
residents felt that they were being pushed to the wall, 
they saw presently that there was room and business, 
that they were lifted up to commercial respect, and some 
even then dreamed of a great future, but no one’s 
imaginings could have surpassed the reality. For Louisi- 
ana had been transplanted for the last time. There 
were Spaniards who insisted Spain’s rule had been 
judicious and that her eclipse as a great power was only 
temporary; that when she arose in her might she would 
receive her colonies back with open arms ; there were 
French who looked for a quarrel with America and a 
recession, but neither came. Old things had passed 
away. A new New Orleans was rising on the foundation 
of the old. 
All this had caused no little excitement at the old 
house on the St. John Road. The Lavalettes had been 
full of enthusiasm at first, and then filled with such bitter 
disappointment that Zenobie did not conceal her indigna- 
tion from her young admirer. The De Longpres were 
more prudent ; perhaps the head of the house saw clearly 
where his best interest lay. The western trade was 
coming down the river from the great country, the rivers 
and lakes above. The agricultural resources would be 
enormous. 
‘‘We may not adore our new masters,” said Monsieur 
de Longpre to Hugh de Brienne, “but what will you? 
We did not adore the old. These give us more privileges. 
They are broader. It brings business.” 
Monsieur de Brienne had already fallen into a certain 
friendliness with the merchant. And though he eyed the 
American with a faint distrust, the two were such friends 
that he understood a coldness to him would be resented. 
They as well as some others knew of the grand scheme 
that had received its death-blow from various sources 
before it had perfected any real organization. 
“It is the best thing that could have happened,” said 
Norton. '‘One can see such a division would have led 
to endless bickerings. England is ready to spring upon 
us again, and France captious and overbearing. Some 
day we shall be united for another grand fight, and then 
we shall learn the advantages of union. Florida must 
be ours.” 
Norton was ofifered a position under the new govern- 
ment ; and though he did not admire Wilkinson, indeed, 
knew too much about his intrigues, he felt he might be 
able to serve his country in more ways than translating 
between French and English and attending to cor- 
respondence. 
They had all gone down in the town to see the Spanish 
flag lowered. It was a happy day for Mere Milhet as 
well as many another. Old scores were repaid. The new 
French ruler could dictate terms to Spain, ah, that was 
glorious ! And though the Lavalettes were in mourning 
and went into no society, they must be witnesses of this 
grand event. There was Aunt Melanie, and Hortense, 
quite closely guarded now, as she was a young lady. 
Sylvie had been a very unhappy little girl. After a 
few days Gervaise began to act quite as if nothing had 
happened between them. He would much rather have put 
his arm about her and strolled up and down the old 
garden as they used ; she was not only cold and 
resentful, but her very air suggested that she would not 
listen with any degree of reason. And he was enjoying 
his new-found freedom so much. He had felt curiously 
irked since his return until the word had come about his 
cousin. And now he was light-hearted enough, and gay 
with Angel. 
Monsieur de Brienne was very gentle and fatherly. 
He admired Telano, he haunted the little lake, he talked 
garden and fruit to Jaques, government and the future 
of the country with Gervaise, and dropped into confi- 
dences with Angelique. She tried very hard to resist his 
kindness, but he seemed not to remark that. 
The Marquis de Brienne did not lack for social 
recognition if he was not handsome and vivacious. And 
now down on the plaza Sylvie felt really proud to be in his 
charge. To be sure, Gervaise went at once to the side of 
Madame Lavalette and Zenobie, who was extremely dec- 
orous and nodded gravely to her friends. Hortense, 
on the contrary, was all brightness and animation, and 
full of enthusiasm. 
Gervaise made many errands up to the plantation for 
the next fortnight. Sometimes Hugh accompanied him, 
and while he would talk to Madame Mere, the young 
people down at the end of the gallery found many things 
to say to each other. 
But when the French flag came down, Zenobie’s 
indignation knew no bounds. 
'‘Why, the matter was settled before that,” said Ger- 
vaise. ‘Tt was because you people did not want to believe 
it. The bargaining had been going on a long time. At 
first the United States would not pay what Bonaparte 
asked.” 
“And the Americans are such petty bargain-makers !” 
cried the scornful girl. “To buy up a country whether 
the people will or no ! To beat down, to give the lowest 
price — why, it is like a slave-dealer!” 
“And they give the whole province such liberty as 
they never had before. They can elect their own officers, 
they can trade where they will. They are a self-govern- 
ing territory except in a few matters, and some day may 
be a splendid State.” 
“vSelf-governing !” The tone was both bitter and in- 
credulous. “Then they send a governor, an American, 
they are forming military companies, they are putting 
their men in the offices as fast as possible ” 
‘‘As if the French wouldn’t have turned out the 
Spaniards fast enough if they had the power. And your 
governor would have come from France.” 
“We should have given him a welcome, Monsieur. 
He would have been of our own people. We are 
French.” 
Politics and religion make bitter quarrels. And these 
young people, the girl knowing nothing about the cir- 
cumstances of the last two years that had brought about 
this culmination, the young fellow, whose soul had been 
broadened by travel and contact with his kind, plunged 
into an unequal warfare. 
“Good-evening, Monsieur,” said Zenobie, loftily, and 
swept across the gallery. 
Gervaise was angry. There were no more idle morn- 
ings or pleasant evenings at the Lavalettes’. 
The mornings indeed were soon devoted to more sub- 
stantial matters. M. de Longpre had found a very 
pleasant and suitable position for the young friend of his 
son, a fine young fellow, he thought. 
And since even the best of girls gossip a little, Hortense 
was not slow in retailing this to Sylvie, and the little girl 
took a malicious sort of pleasure in it. She hoped Ger- 
vaise loved Zenobie extravagantly, for the more he loved, 
the more deeply he would suffer. And now he would 
know ! 
There were two other circumstances occupying her a 
good deal. One was the departure of Cousin Hugh. 
She had grown quite used to him, and somehow, she 
thought him improved in looks. He was not so thin, 
that made a difference. His nose was less prominent, 
and when he smiled — it was a grave sort of smile, but 
had a certain sweetness in it that one could recall so 
easily — it softened all his face. His eyes were dark and 
resolute, she had called them fierce at first, but occasion- 
ally there came a shade of tenderness in them that almost 
won her against herself. 
The other was a very curious interest in Monsieur 
Norton, who might be considered a regular evening 
visitor. Hylas was very glad to come as well. Sylvie 
always upbraided him for not loving her best, and then 
they had a royal romp up and down the old garden. 
Sometimes Angel and M’sieu walked about, for it was 
still very pleasant ; sometimes he read verses to her, 
or made her read to him. Sylvie liked him very much. 
He often brought her bonbons — they had them even then, 
and little girls were fond of them. 
One evening Cousin Hugh took Angel down the 
oleander walk. Sylvie came skipping along. 
‘T have something quite confidential to say to Angel,” 
and he made a little gesture of dismissal. “Then I have 
something for your ear alone that Angel must not hear.” 
“But if it is alike ” 
“Ah, but it isn’t alike,” he interrupted, smiling at 
Sylvie. 
She returned to the court reluctantly. “Telano,” she 
said, sadly, “I wish I had a great secret to tell you. I 
used to have secrets,” and she sighed. 
Hugh fell into step with Angelique. How soft and 
sweet the air was all about them! 
“I think if I can get money enough out of the wreck 
of anything, I shall buy this old place when I come back,” 
he said. “I like it so very much. I like New Orleans, 
and it has a great future before it. And I feel that I, 
too, am pervaded with what Gervaise calls patriotism.” 
Angel laughed softly. “We shall be French- Ameri- 
cans,” she said. 
“You do not want to go back to the mother country?” 
“Oh, no, no,” earnestly. 
“I am glad to hear you say so. While I am gone I want 
to leave Sylvie in your care. She really ought to have 
some regular education. It is what the province lacks. 
If some one could be found — I like many things in the 
Eastern system. But I must say, Angel, I think you 
unusually intelligent.” 
“Oh, thank you,” she gave a soft little laugh. 
“This was not my secret, however. Angel, as head of 
the family I have been asked to sanction a young man’s 
visits and addresses, and consent to a betrothal. I like 
him very much. But it is for you decide, my dear 
cousin. He will ask his own question. He is not rich, 
though he may be in a few years. I like the fashion 
of two people making an election. My dear Angel, I 
hope you will be very happy.” 
He bent over a little and kissed her on the forehead, 
but he felt the fluttering warmth on his lips. 
“If I had a brother I should like him to resemble Roger 
Norton,” he said. 
“Thank you for so high a compliment,” she returned. 
“You have been a brave girl all the way thiough,” he 
exclaimed. “You deserve a brave husband. And if you 
did not mind waiting — I hope to be back in a year at the 
longest ” he also hoped then to be able to give her a 
dowry, although he knew this would be no object to 
Norton. How proud Americans were ! 
“Oh, yes,” she answered. “And I will do my best for 
Sylvie.” 
“I really hate to leave you all,” and he sighed. 
So the arrangements were made for his journey. 
They had heard nothing further of Pere Gilbert. He 
had questioned Father Antoine of the cathedral, and the 
Father at the convent ; but Pere Gilbert, so far as they 
knew, had left New Orleans at once after his fruitless 
mission. 
“My journey to Paris is to claim my wife’s estates,” 
he said, in a decisive tone, to Pere Moras. “She is my 
ward as well as wife, but too young to take her position 
as such. Of course if I had been dead the matter would 
have been settled otherwise.” 
“The priest bowed, then said thoughtfully, “But it 
seems an irregular sort of marriage, to say the least.” 
“Still the priest of St. Eudor solemnized it. At the 
proper time there will be another ceremony.” 
Then they bowed again to each other, and Hugh went 
his way. 
“I doubt if any other Church keeps secrets as well,” he 
mused. 
“Do you know, little Sylvie, that I am going away 
to-morrow?” Hugh de Brienne asked, as she sat idly 
feeding the swans. 
“And you never told me the secret,” she said, resent- 
fully. She had been too proud to suggest it before. 
“Yes — I spoke of it once. Sylvie, you will be a year 
older and a year wiser when I come back.” 
Sylvie tapped her foot on the stone coping and threw 
some crumbs half over the pond to make the swans swim 
after them. 
“I shall be past thirteen then.” 
“And how about the wisdom ?” 
He looked as if he was teasing her. 
“Oh, I do not care about the wisdom. Aunt Barbe 
was reading something — Tn wisdom is sorrow,’ I think 
it was.” 
“And you do not like sorrow ?” 
“Indeed I do not. I have had enough sorrow,” and 
she sighed. 
“I think you have, poor child,” yet he was amused at 
the affectation. “When I come back I shall bring you 
some joys.” 
She would not ask what the joys were. He wanted 
to shake the obstinate little thing. 
“One will be your mother’s fortune.” 
“Then I should like to buy this place, and live here 
always. Jaques likes it so much. And Barbe.” 
“That would be a nice thing to do.” 
“And then, Sylvie,” as she was looking down the 
magnolia walk, bright with glossy leaves — “then, Sylvie, 
I shall bring you back your freedom. It would be very 
hard to be tied all your life to an ugly old fellow.” 
Sylvie hung her head and flushed scarlet. 
“Then you will be a very fortunate young lady, 
growing up in this quaint old city, sharing pleasures with 
other girls ” 
“But I don’t know any girls,” she interrupted. 
“You will then. I want you to have a happy time, 
little Sylvie. You will come to know many things and 
have friends and joys, and an indulgent old guardian 
who will make life as joyous for you as he knows how. 
And he hopes then to have a little of your confidence and 
that you will never feel afraid to ask him for anything 
you want.” 
Her head was bent down and the soft light hair hid her 
face. 
“What shall I bring you from Paris?” he asked. 
“Nothing,” in a slow tone. 
“Nothing?” 
She sprang up suddenly and flung her arms about his 
neck. '‘Oh, don’t go,” she cried, with a long-drawn 
breath. “Stay here with us; I don’t care about the 
fortune. I am sorry I called you old and ugly !” 
CHAPTER XX. 
LAURE. 
It was very lonely for the little girl when Cousin Hugh 
went away. She had really no companions. The chil- 
dren who went to the convent and to the French schools 
were all Catholics. They had festas, they had little plays ; 
most of them had a certain intimacy with the slave 
children who did all manner of laughable tricks and sang 
French or Spanish songs to amuse them, and slave nurses 
who were trained to obey every whim. They took 
promenades thus attended, but Sylvie was outside of 
all this. Besides, she was getting to be a large girl. 
Training Telano did not satisfy her. And it seemed 
as if Telano had come to the limit of his faculties. 
“I suppose,” she said, sagely, to Barbe, “that is the 
great difference between animals and us. They just do 
the same things over again and seem never to get tired of 
them. We want something new and different; we want 
to go on.” 
“But there are books, petite. You have not learned 
everything out of them.” 
“I can read English very well. Oh, I wish there were 
story-books in abundance. I have to make them up 
myself. I think, what if the swans could talk ! And 
the birds, who go to so many different countries. Then 
the wind sings strange songs through the trees. Oh, 
Barbe, I wish I had a violin ! I am sure I could make 
beautiful music.” 
“A violin ! A real fiddle ! I never heard of such a 
thing for a girl !” cried Barbe, horrified. 
“There was a little black girl down by the levee playing 
on a fiddle, and her brother, a wee tiny thing, 
danced ” 
“Perhaps you would like to be black, then?” said Barbe, 
with asperity. 
“They have such good times,” sighed the child. 
“Pm ashamed of you. What do you suppose Monsieur 
de Brienne would say?” 
Sometimes Sylvie thought she would not care a bit 
what he said. 
Gervaise went to business every morning. He was 
quite an important man. They had never come back to 
the old freedom of affectionate friendship. She was too 
big to pet and tease, and not big enough to understand 
and accept the difference. Then, too, he was preoccu- 
pied with his quarrel with Zenobie. She held her head 
up very straight and bowed in a chilling manner when 
they passed each other as they often did. He thought her 
very self-willed and opinionated, he half believed ignorant. 
Angelique was much broader. Even Hortense was coming 
to accept the new regime. But then her father was a 
shrewd business man, and saw in a little while that in- 
stead of tyrannous exactions from a far-away govern- 
ment who knew nothing of the needs of its colony, there 
would be the liberal policy of unhampered trade, and a 
certain protection against injustice. 
Even the young Governor was making himself quite 
agreeable. To be sure, there was much friction, but the 
feminine part paid little heed to the intricacies of govern- 
ment. There were some very attractive Americans, and 
while they might rail at them to their own kinsmen, they 
accepted little attentions when there was no stern male 
relative to interfere. 
So Hortense was less prejudiced. A very charming 
young lady now, who still petted Sylvie, but adored her 
less. She had many friends of her own, and there were 
dances and visits to plantations, birthday festas and 
saints’ days, and walks and drives. Aunt Melanie was 
sometimes at her wits’ end. 
“You must choose a husband for Hortense,” she said 
sharply to her brother. “Girls are not what they used 
to be in my day. She is too much of a coquette.” 
She did dearly love a bit of fun, and if it outwitted the 
sharp eyes so continually watching her, she enjoyed it all 
the more. 
Sylvie did not get much entertainment from either of 
these quasi-friends. Then Gervaise went down to the 
De Longpres’ so often there was no need of Hortense 
coming up to spend an hour roaming about with the child. 
For Gervaise was not there to join them. 
And Angelique was engrossed with her own affairs. 
Monsieur Norton was an almost daily visitor, and her 
attendant when she went out to any pleasure. Barbe 
played propriety with a rather ill grace at times, it must 
be confessed ; yet she liked him very much. Indeed, 
Hugh had bespoken his supervision for the household. 
These excursions up or down the river or on the lakes 
were a great pleasure to Sylvie, as four were always 
better company. 
So the winter wore away with its holidays and some 
sharpish, cold weather. Lent began, and everybody. 
Catholic and Protestant, went to hear Pere Antoine at 
the cathedral, who preached most eloquent sermons. 
And though there was a break at Mi-careme, they went 
back to church-going with devoutness and simplicity. 
Spring was early, and there were some tremendous 
freshets that swept and swirled down the great river, 
carried away the levees and wrecked the shipping, to say 
nothing of the plantations that suffered. People went 
out to view the destruction, and painful stories were told 
of families that had perished. But everything came out 
in glory and beauty, such as is only known in Southern 
countries ; and Sylvie Perrier drank in its loveliness, and 
talked to the trees and the birds, and answered the soft 
winds that went murmuring by. Fifty years later the 
little girl would have been a poet, for then education and 
intelligence were generally diffused ; and it was no draw- 
back to be educated and put the knowledge to some use. 
She was wandering up and down in the garden one 
morning, singing to herself. Roses were everywhere, 
such countless varieties that had never known a florist’s 
art, but seemed to grow and bloom in their riotous fash- 
ion for the mere love of being beautiful and generous. 
'‘Mam’selle,” said Viny, ‘‘there is a visitor. She asks 
if she may come out to the garden to you, Mam’selle 
Laure Gorgas.” 
“Oh, yes !” Sylvie’s face was all alight. How long 
it had been since she had really seen Laure, except to 
pass her casually ! She had heard from Mere Milhet 
that Laure had begun her novitiate. 
“It is the best thing, poor child,” Mere Milhet had 
explained. “You see she had no one. She could never 
tell whose child she was. And in the convent it would 
make no difference, they are all children of God. Then 
there is nothing for such girls to do. The free women 
of color take up the small industries — hair-dressing and 
the making of gowns and pelisses and caps — when one’s 
own slaves cannot attend to it. To set up a little school 
would be useless ; there are women now who hardly earn 
their bread. So it was wise in her to seek a home, as she 
was not likely to marry well.” 
Laure came forward. Her gown was gray, and she 
had a small white cap, such as the young girls wore. 
“Oh, Laure ! What a long while it has been since I 
have seen you ! And — ” she studied her with a curious 
interest — “you have changed mysteriously. You are — 
perhaps not prettier, but softer, sweeter. You look hap- 
pier. Oh, Laure, I read in a book only a few days ago 
that happiness made one beautiful, and I wished every- 
body could be happy !” 
“I shall never be beautiful, Mam’selle, not even when 
I am the happiest.” 
“Is it because — oh, Laure, are you glad to be a nun?” 
in a curious, eager breath. 
The girl’s figure that had been rather stout was much 
slimmer, though she had filled out in the shoulders. Her 
skin was clear, somewhat pale, her eyes a sort of greenish 
brown, one of the hazel shades. Her nose was short and 
so was her upper lip, but her teeth were white and even. 
“Let us sit down, I have so much to tell you. And 
I ought to beg your pardon on my knees for something 
I did a long while ago. I think it made no difference. 
Your cousin, the Marquis of Brienne, came ” 
“Yes, we were all afraid he was dead. It was — yes, 
it was a great joy.” 
“And he has gone back to France?” 
“He is to return. It is about some estates ” 
“You will be rich, Mademoiselle.” 
Sylvie laughed, doubtfully. “I do not know. I do 
not care.” 
“Oh, but you will presently. When you are a real 
young lady. You did not have to go?” 
“No. I could have gone — that is, Cousin Hugh would 
have taken me, but Angelique did not want to, and I 
should be afraid to cross the ocean.” 
There was a silence of some minutes. Laure picked 
at the white kerchief folded about her shoulders, and her 
rather pallid face flushed. 
“A priest came from France to learn something about 
you. He was here at the convent.” 
“Oh, yes,” answered Sylvie, indifferently. It seemed 
almost like a dream to her, but it was one of the secrets 
with which her small life had been weighted. 
“I heard some of the conversation. The Sister knew 
nothing about you. So many people thought you Mam’- 
selle Angelique’s sister with the same name or Monsieur 
Anbreton’s.” 
Sylvie made no answer, wondering what all this was 
leading to. 
“The Mother Superior was ill. Things were in a kind 
of confused state. Pere Antoine was away. No one 
seemed to know. Then I asked him some questions ” 
Laure’s face turned from red to swarthiness. 
“Well?” a little impatiently. It seemed to Sylvie a 
great deal of talk about a matter that was of no account 
now. 
Laure slid down on her knees and caught Sylvie’s 
gown in her hands. 
“Oh, Mam’selle, I know it made no difference. He 
could have learned it elsewhere. It was what was in 
my heart. I have often felt envious of you. You had so 
many to love you. You were so indulged. You could 
do as you liked. And when he, that strange priest, said 
they wanted to take you back to France, that you had 
been given to a convent, and that was your rightful place, 
it seemed as if all my prayers for you were going to be 
answered, and I would help. It was wicked, because 
I felt if there was no other refuge but a convent for poor 
me, why should not you and other prosperous people 
go in them ; not simply those who could not help them- 
selves. And I want you to forgive me for the envy and 
jealousy ” 
“Did you really want me to be put in a convent?” said 
Sylvie, aghast. 
“I did then. I was glad to tell. And then all night 
I tossed about and felt so wretched. I wanted to come 
and warn you. I went to Pere Moras and confessed, and 
he said I had only done my duty, but that Pere Gilbert 
could have found out without me; that Monsieur La- 
valette knew all about the household. But it seems there 
was some mistake. I asked about it afterward. And 
I found they did not take you away, and that tall, dark 
cousin came who was a marquis. I saw you out after- 
ward ” 
“It was very mean in you. Laurel What had I ever 
done to you that you should want me shut up in a con- 
vent? And to be sent to France ” 
Sylvie wanted to shake off the hands that were clutch- 
ing her gown. 
“Oh, it was worse than that, wicked in the extreme ! 
Oh, Mam’selle, if you had known how many nights I 
just knelt on the floor and prayed and prayed that no 
evil might happen to you, and that you might be, oh, 
very happy! And now I am going away. I am going 
to have a new life. I have learned so many things about 
love and God and the Blessed Virgin and real religion. 
But I couldn’t go without telling you this and begging 
your forgiveness ” 
The weeping, drooping figure appealed to Sylvie. She 
had been very naughty and obdurate as well. And she 
would have liked to see Zenobie put in a convent, because 
Gervaise fancied her. 
“Oh, Laure, don’t cry! You see it didn’t make any 
difference at all. It was a mistake — it was about some- 
thing else, and — and Cousin Hugh is coming back, and 
— people can’t be good right along. No one is.” 
Then she held out her hands and smiled, so sweet 
a smile it warmed the other’s heart. 
“Sit here and tell me where you are going.” 
“Oh, Mam’selle, maybe this is all wrong; but it can’t 
be if all goes as we have planned, and the good Lord puts 
no obstacle in the way. That is just how we have left it. 
I am going away from the convent to be a true mother 
to a sweet little girl, and — and a wife to a young man 
I love very much.” 
“Oh, Laure !” in utter amazement. 
“Don’t think ill of me, Mam’selle Sylvie,” pleaded the 
broken voice. 
“Ill! Why, Laure, it is just lovely. Oh, tell me all 
about it !” and Sylvie caught the passive hand in her 
eagerness. 
“I wanted to. There is no one else, and I thought if 
you forgave me, I could tell it all to you. Why, Mam’- 
selle, if it was to save you any pain or trouble now. I’d 
walk through the fire for you! And when Mere Milhet 
tells the story and accuses me of ingratitude, you will 
know how it was. Mere Milhet has been very good to 
me. I might have been half beaten to death and turned 
out to starve. I couldn’t have been sold for a slave, 
because I was white ; but many a slave had a better home. 
If I had been pretty, Mere Milhet might have liked me 
for a sort of daughter. She was very good to me, and 
I was grateful enough until she began to talk about my 
being a nun. From the very first I hated it. I should 
have run away, but I could not tell where to go. There 
are so many cruel people in the world. I was afraid. 
So I just went on and on, and tried to be good, and was 
wicked, and repented; and last year she planned to have 
me begin my novitiate. I had no dowry ; I was not pretty, 
and no one would want to marry me — that is, no one 
worth having, she thought. But when the girls went 
away from school, and had lovers, and were married, it 
seemed hard to be shut out. For I was willing enough 
to work. And I used to wish the times of the casket 
girls were back again, and you could go where some nice 
kindly man wanted you, and you could keep his house, 
and make him happy, and care for his children when 
they came, and love him.” 
She drew a long breath she had talked so fast. Sylvie’s 
eyes were shining in the most beautiful, tender light 
imaginable, and inspired her. 
“There was a baby brought to the convent whose 
mother had just died, and whose father was to go away 
on quite a long voyage. I begged to take care of it, it was 
so small and helpless. And then I began to love it so. 
I used to think if its father never came back, and it could 
grow up in the convent and be mine, I would be quite 
willing to be a nun. But its father came and went. He 
had a two years’ engagement with this sea captain. A 
fortnight ago that was at an end, and then he told me he 
was going East to his native city, where he had a better 
chance for business, and would take his little girl and 
settle. Oh, Mam’selle, I felt as if some one had suddenly 
struck me down. I wanted to die. I think I said I could 
not live if the baby was taken away. I just cried all 
night long. She loves me. Her little baby hands 
were so sweet. Her eyes are blue, not so beautiful as 
yours, but tender and loving. And her lips so full of 
delicious kisses ! When he came again we happened to 
be alone, and he told me what he had been thinking of. 
Americans are so different, you know ; and then I had no 
mother or father that he could consult. Mere Milhet 
would not have understood him. And he said since I 
loved the baby so much, and she loved me, and that it 
would be a pity to separate us, so why should he not 
marry me. He had thought a great deal about me, and 
he was quite sure he could take good care of me and make 
me very happy. Oh, Sylvie! I was so afraid at first 
that it was wrong to desire to be happy. And then when 
I looked at the dreary little nun’s cell, the long years 
spent in teaching children and caring for the sick — it is 
all good work and God’s work, but some may like it 
better than others. It would be a great trial to me, a 
continual fight. And Sunday the good Pere Antoine 
preached such a lovely sermon about our ingratitude in 
refusing any happiness God sent us. So then I gave in. 
I told him last night I would go. I am to be the baby’s 
nurse. And when we get to Baltimore we shall be mar- 
ried, and then I will be her mother. Oh, I wonder if it 
is wicked? He is not of my Church, but we will be 
married by a priest. And there are so many Catholic 
people in Baltimore that I shall not feel at all strange, 
he says. One of the Sisters will go down to the boat 
with me; and when it is ready to start he will take her 
off, and he knows how to manage it so there will be no 
trouble. I am to wear my Sister’s dress all the time on 
the boat. He will be busy, he has so much to do; but 
then I shall see him. Oh, Mam’selle, wish me good luck. 
You escaped the pirates and everything; and if you give 
me the wish, I know I shall go safely, and because yon 
were so good as to forgive me when I meant you ill. 
I was unhappy all the time ; but now I should not wish 
any one ill, not even the woman who used to beat me. 
I want all the world to be happy.” 
“Oh, you will, you will ! And I will pray every day — 
it is to the same God, you know. And you will always be 
good to the little girl ? What is her name ?” 
“Oh, Mam’selle, you won’t be vexed, but I coaxed him 
to have her christened Angelique. She looks so like an 
angel with a crown of yellow curls and blue eyes. I 
always call her that. And I shall always think of you. 
I am glad I know how to write ; and if you will be 
