that the boys, like the common people, suspected Angelo Beroviero of
being an alchemist. It was clear that the boy meant the book that
contained the priceless secrets for glass-making which Giovanni and his
brother had so long coveted. His interest increased.
"After all," he said, "you saw nothing distinctly. My father went in and
shut the door, I suppose."
"Yes," answered the boy. "But after a long time the door opened again."
He stopped, resolved to be questioned, in order that his information
should seem more valuable. The instinct of small boys is often as
diabolically keen as that of a grown woman.
"Go on!" said Giovanni, more and more interested. "The door opened
again, you say? Then my father came out--"
"No, sir. Zorzi came out into the light that fell from the door. The
master was inside."
"Well, what did Zorzi do? Be quick!"
"He brought out a shovel full of earth, sir, and he carefully scattered
it about over the flower-bed, and then he went back, and presently he
came out with the shovel again, and more earth; and so three times. They
had buried the great book somewhere in the laboratory."
"But the laboratory is paved," objected Giovanni, to gain time, for he
was thinking.
"There is earth under the stones, sir. I remember seeing it last year
when the masons put down several new slabs. The great book is somewhere
under the floor of the laboratory. I must have stepped over it in
feeding the fire last night, and that is why the devils that guard it
inspired the porter to beat me this morning. It was the devils that sent
us to sleep, for fear that we should find it."
"I daresay," said Giovanni with much gravity, for he thought it better
that the boy should be kept in awe of an object that possessed such
immense value. "You should be careful in future, or ill may befall you."
"Is it true, sir, that I have told you something you wished to know?"
"I am glad to know that the great book is safe," answered Giovanni
ambiguously.
"Zorzi knows where it is," suggested, the boy in a tone meant to convey
the suspicion that Zorzi might use his knowledge.
"Yes--yes," repeated Giovanni thoughtfully, "and he is ill. He ought to
be brought over to the house until he is better."
"Then the furnace could be allowed to get out, sir, could it not?"
"Yes. The weather is growing warm, as it is. Yes--the furnace may be put
out now." Giovanni hardly knew that he was speaking aloud. "Zorzi will
get well much sooner if he is in a good room in the house. I will see to
it."
The boy stood still beside him, waiting patiently for some reward.
"Are we to come as usual to-night, sir, or will there be no fire?" he
asked.
"Go and ask at the usual time. I have not decided yet. There--you are a
good boy. If you hold your tongue there will be more."
Giovanni offered the lad a piece of money, but he would not take it.
"We are glass-blowers' sons, sir, we are not poor people," he said with
theatrical pride, for he would have taken the coin without remark if he
had not felt that he possessed a secret of great value, which might
place Giovanni in his power before long.
Giovanni was surprised.
"What do you want, then?" he asked.
"I am old enough to be an apprentice, sir."
"Very well," answered Giovanni. "You shall be an apprentice. But hold
your tongue about what you saw. You told me everything, did you?"
"Yes, sir. And I thank you for your kindness, sir. If I can help you,
sir--" he stopped.
"Help me!" exclaimed Giovanni. "I do not work at the furnaces! Wash your
face and come by and by to my glass-house, and you shall have an
apprentice's place."
"I shall serve you well, sir. You shall see that I am grateful,"
answered the boy.
He touched Giovanni's sleeve and kissed his own hand, and ran back to
the steps before the front door. There he knelt down, leaning over the
water, and washed his face in the canal, well pleased with the price he
had got for his bruising.
Giovanni did not look at him, but turned to go on, past the corner of
the house, in deep thought. From the narrow line into which the back
door opened, Marietta and Nella emerged at the same moment. Nella had
made sure that Giovanni had gone out, but she could not foresee that he
would stop a long time to talk with the boy in the covered footway. She
ran against him, as he passed the corner, for she was walking on
Marietta's left side. The young girl's face was covered, but she knew
that Giovanni must recognise her instantly, by her cloak, and because
Nella was with her.
"Where are you going?" he asked sharply.
"To church, sir, to church," answered Nella in great perturbation. "The
young lady is going to confession."
"Ah, very good, very good!" exclaimed Giovanni, who was very attentive
to religious forms. "By all means go to confession, my sister. You
cannot be too conscientious in the performance of your duties."
But Marietta laughed a little under her veil.
"I had not the least intention of going to confession this morning," she
said. "Nella said so because you frightened her."
"What? What is this?" Giovanni looked from one to the other. "Then where
are you going?"
"To the glass-house," answered Marietta with perfect coolness.
"You are not going to the laboratory? Zorzi is living there alone. You
cannot go there."
"I am not afraid of Zorzi. In the first place, I wish to know how he is.
Secondly, this is the hour for making the tests, and as he cannot stand
he cannot try the glass alone."
Giovanni was amazed at her assurance, and immediately assumed a grave
and authoritative manner befitting the eldest brother who represented
the head of the house.
"I cannot allow you to go," he said. "It is most unbecoming. Our father
would be shocked. Go back at once, and never think of going to the
laboratory while Zorzi is there. Do you hear?"
"Yes. Come, Nella," she added, taking her serving-woman by the arm.
Before Giovanni realised what she was going to do, she was walking
quickly across the wooden bridge towards the glass-house, holding
Nella's sleeve, to keep her from lagging, and Nella trotted beside her
mistress like a frightened lamb, led by a string. Giovanni did not
attempt to follow at first, for he was utterly nonplussed by his
sister's behaviour. He rarely knew what to do when any one openly defied
him. He stood still, staring after the two, and saw Marietta tap upon
the door of the glass-house. It opened almost immediately and they
disappeared within.
As soon as they were out of sight, his anger broke out, and he made a
few quick steps on the bridge. Then he stopped, for he was afraid to
make a scandal. That at least was what he said to himself, but the fact
was that he was afraid to face his sister, who was infinitely braver and
cooler than he. Besides, he reflected that he could not now prevent her
from going to the laboratory, since she was already there, and that it
would be very undignified to make a scene before Zorzi, who was only a
servant after all. This last consideration consoled him greatly. In the
eyes of the law, and therefore in Giovanni's, Zorzi was a hired servant.
Now, socially speaking, a servant was not a man; and since Zorzi was not
a man, and Marietta was therefore gone with one servant to a place,
belonging to her father, where there was another servant, to go thither
and forcibly bring her back would either be absurd, or else it would
mean that Zorzi had acquired a new social rank, which was absurd also.
There is no such consolation to a born coward as a logical reason for
not doing what he is afraid to do.
But Giovanni promised himself that he would make his sister pay dearly
for having defied him, and as he had also made up his mind to have Zorzi
removed to the house, on pretence of curing his hurt, but in reality in
order to search for the precious manuscripts, it would be impossible for
Marietta to commit the same piece of folly a second time. But she should
pay for the affront she had put upon him.
He accordingly came back to the footway and walked along toward his own
glass-house; and the boy, who had finished washing his face, smoothed
his hair with his wet fingers and followed him, having seen and
understood all that had happened.
Marietta sent Pasquale on, to tell Zorzi that she was coming, and when
she reached the laboratory he was sitting in the master's big chair,
with his foot on a stool before him. His face was pale and drawn from
the suffering of the past twenty-four hours, and from time to time he
was still in great pain. As Marietta entered, he looked up with a
grateful smile.
"You seem glad to see us after all," she said. "Yet you protested that I
should not come to-day!"
"I cannot help it," he answered.
"Ah, but if you had been with us just now!" Nella began, still
frightened.
But Marietta would not let her go on.
"Hold your tongue, Nella," she said, with a little laugh. "You should
know better than to trouble a sick man's fancy with such stories."
Nella understood that Zorzi was not to know, and she began examining
the foot, to make sure that the bandages had not been displaced during
the night.
"To-morrow I will change them," she said. "It is not like a scald. The
glass has burned you like red-hot iron, and the wound will heal
quickly."
"If you will tell me which crucible to try," said Marietta, "I will make
the tests for you. Then we can move the table to your side and you can
prepare the new ingredients according to the writing."
Pasquale had left them, seeing that he was not wanted.
"I fear it is of little use," answered Zorzi, despondently. "Of course,
the master is very wise, but it seems to me that he has added so much,
from time to time, to the original mixture, and so much has been taken
away, as to make it all very uncertain."
"I daresay," assented Marietta. "For some time I have thought so. But we
must carry out his wishes to the letter, else he will always believe
that the experiments might have succeeded if he had stayed here."
"Of course," said Zorzi. "We should make tests of all three crucibles
to-day, if it is only to make more room for the things that are to be
put in."
"Where is the copper ladle?" asked Marietta. "I do not see it in its
place."
"I have none--I had forgotten. Your brother came here yesterday morning,
and wanted to try the glass himself in spite of me. I knocked the ladle
out of his hand and it fell through into the crucible."
"That was like you," said Marietta. "I am glad you did it."
"Heaven knows what has happened to the thing," Zorzi answered. "It has
been there since yesterday morning. For all I know, it may have melted
by this time. It may affect the glass, too."
"Where can I get another?" asked Marietta, anxious to begin.
Zorzi made an instinctive motion to rise. It hurt him badly and he bit
his lip.
"I forgot," he said. "Pasquale can get another ladle from the main
glass-house."
"Go and call Pasquale, Nella," said Marietta at once. "Ask him to get a
copper ladle."
Nella went out into the garden, leaving the two together. Marietta was
standing between the chair and the furnace, two or three steps from
Zorzi. It was very hot in the big room, for the window was still shut.
"Tell me how you really feel," Marietta said, almost at once.
Every woman who loves a man and is anxious about him is sure that if she
can be alone with him for a moment, he will tell her the truth about his
condition. The experience of thousands of years has not taught women
that if there is one person in the world from whom a man will try to
conceal his ills and aches, it is the woman he loves, because he would
rather suffer everything than give her pain.
"I feel perfectly well," said Zorzi.
"Indeed you are not!" answered Marietta, energetically. "If you were
perfectly well you would be on your feet, doing your work yourself. Why
will you not tell me?"
"I mean, I have no pain," said Zorzi.
"You had great pain just now, when you tried to move," retorted
Marietta. "You know it. Why do you try to deceive me? Do you think I
cannot see it in your face?"
"It is nothing. It comes now and then, and goes away again almost at
once."
Marietta had come close to him while she was speaking. One hand hung by
her side within his reach. He longed to take it, with such a longing as
he had never felt for anything in his life; he resisted with all the
strength he had left. But he remembered that he had held her hand in his
yesterday, and the memory was a force in itself, outside of him, drawing
him in spite of himself, lifting his arm when he commanded it to lie
still. His eyes could not take themselves from the beautiful white
fingers, so delicately curved as they hung down, so softly shaded to
pale rose colour at their tapering tips. She stood quite still, looking
down at his bent head.
"You would not refuse my friendship, now," she said, in a low voice, so
low that when she had spoken she doubted whether he could have
understood.
He took her hand then, for he had no resistance left, and she let him
take it, and did not blush. He held it in both his own and silently drew
it to him, till he was pressing it to his heart as he had never hoped to
do.
"You are too good to me," he said, scarcely knowing that he pronounced
the words.
Nella passed the window, coming back from her errand. Instantly Marietta
drew her hand away, and when the serving-woman entered she was speaking
to Zorzi in the most natural tone in the world.
"Is the testing plate quite clean?" she asked, and she was already
beside it.
Zorzi looked at her with amazement. She had almost been seen with her
hand in his, a catastrophe which he supposed would have entailed the
most serious consequences; yet there she was, perfectly unconcerned and
not even faintly blushing, and she had at once pretended that they had
been talking about the glass.
"Yes--I believe it is clean," he answered, almost hesitating. "I cleaned
it yesterday morning."
Nella had brought the copper ladle. There were always several in the
glass-works for making tests. Marietta took it and went to the furnace,
while Nella watched her, in great fear lest she should burn herself. But
the young girl was in no danger, for she had spent half her life in the
laboratory and the garden, watching her father. She wrapped the wet
cloth round her hand and held the ladle by the end.
"We will begin with the one on the right," she said, thrusting the
instrument through the aperture.
Bringing it out with some glass in it, she supported it with both hands
as she went quickly to the iron table, and she instantly poured out the
stuff and began to watch it.
"It is just what you had the other day," she said, as the glass rapidly
cooled.
Zorzi was seated high enough to look over the table.
"Another failure," he said. "It is always the same. We have scarcely had
any variation in the tint in the last week."
"That is not your fault," answered Marietta. "We will try the next."
As if she had been at the work all her life, she chilled the ladle and
chipped off the small adhering bits of glass from it, and slipped the
last test from the table, carrying it to the refuse jar with tongs. Once
more she wrapped the damp cloth round her hand and went to the furnace.
The middle crucible was to be tried next. Nella, looking on with nervous
anxiety, was in a profuse perspiration.
"I believe that is the one into which the ladle fell," said Zorzi. "Yes,
I am quite sure of it."
Marietta took the specimen and poured it out, set down the ladle on the
brick work, and watched the cooling glass, expecting to see what she had
often seen before. But her face changed, in a look of wonder and
delight.
"Zorzi!" she exclaimed. "Look! Look! See what a colour!"
"I cannot see well," he answered, straining his neck. "Wait a minute!"
he cried, as Marietta took the tongs. "I see now! We have got it! I
believe we have got it! Oh, if I could only walk!"
"Patience--you shall see it. It is almost cool. It is quite stiff now."
She took the little flat cake up with the tongs, very carefully, and
held it before his eyes. The light fell through it from the window, and
her head was close to his, as they both looked at it together.
"I never dreamed of such a colour," said Zorzi, his face flushing with
excitement.
"There never was such a colour before," answered Marietta. "It is like
the juice of a ripe pomegranate that has just been cut, only there is
more light in it."
"It is like a great ruby--the rubies that the jewellers call 'pigeon's
blood.'"
"My father always said it should be blood-red," said Marietta. "But I
thought he meant something different, something more scarlet."
"I thought so, too. What they call pigeon's blood is not the colour of
blood at all. It is more like pomegranates, as you said at first. But
this is a marvellous thing. The master will be pleased."
Nella came and looked too, convinced that the glass had in some way
turned out more beautiful by the magic of her mistress's touch.
"It is a miracle!" cried the woman of the people. "Some saint must have
made this."
The glass glowed like a gem and seemed to give out light of its own. As
Zorzi and Marietta looked, its rich glow spread over their faces. It was
that rare glass which, from old cathedral windows, casts such a deep
stain upon the pavement that one would believe the marble itself must be
dyed with unchanging color.
"We have found it together," said Marietta.
Zorzi looked from the glass to her face, close by his, and their eyes
met for a moment in the strange glow and it was as if they knew each
other in another world.
"Do not let the red light fall on your faces," said Nella, crossing
herself. "It is too much like blood--good health to you," she added
quickly for fear of evil.
Marietta lowered her hand and turned the piece of glass sideways, to see
how it would look.
"What shall we do with it?" she asked. "It must not be left any longer
in the crucible."
"No. It ought to be taken out at once. Such a colour must be kept for
church windows. If I were able to stand, I would make most of it into
cylinders and cut them while hot. There are men who can do it, in the
glass-house. But the master does not want them here."
"We had better let the fires go out," said Marietta. "It will cool in
the crucible as it is."
"I would give anything to have that crucible empty, or an empty one in
the place," answered Zorzi. "This is a great discovery, but it is not
exactly what the master expected. I have an idea of my own, which I
should like to try."
"Then we must empty the crucible. There is no other way. The glass will
keep its colour, whatever shape we give it. Is there much of it?"
"There may be twenty or thirty pounds' weight," answered Zorzi. "No one
can tell."
Nell listened in mute surprise. She had never seen Marietta with old
Beroviero, and she was amazed to hear her young mistress talking about
the processes of glass-making, about crucibles and cylinders and
ingredients as familiarly as of domestic things. She suddenly began to
imagine that old Beroviero, who was probably a magician and an
alchemist, had taught his daughter the same dangerous knowledge, and she
felt a sort of awe before the two young people who knew such a vast deal
which she herself could never know.
She asked herself what was to become of this wonderful girl, half woman
and half enchantress, who brought the colour of the saints' blood out of
the white flames, and understood as much as men did of the art which was
almost all made up of secrets. What would happen when she was the wife
of Jacopo Contarini, shut up in a splendid Venetian palace where there
were no glass furnaces to amuse her? At first she would grow pale,
thought Nella, but by and by would weave spells in her chamber which
would bring all Venice to her will, and turn it all to gold and precious
stones and red glass, and the people to fairies subject to her will, her
husband, the Council of Ten, even the Doge himself.
Nella roused herself, and passed her hand over her eyes, as if she were
waking from a dream. And indeed she had been dreaming, for she had
looked too long into the wonderful depths of the new colour, and it had
dazed her wits.
CHAPTER XII
On that day Marietta felt once more the full belief that Zorzi loved
her; but the certainty did not fill her with happiness as on that first
afternoon when she had seen him stoop to pick up the rose she had
dropped. The time that had seemed so very distant had come indeed;
instead of years, a week had scarcely passed, and it was not by letting
a flower fall in his path that she had told him her love, as she had
meant to do. She had done much more. She had let him take her hand and
press it to his heart, and she would have left it there if Nella had not
passed the window; she had wished him to take it, she had let it hang by
her side in the hope that he would be bold enough to do so, and she had
thrilled with delight at his touch; she had drawn back her hand when the
woman came, and she had put on a look of innocent indifference that
would have deceived one of the Council's own spies. Could any language
have been more plain?
It was very strange, she thought, that she should all at once have gone
so far, that she should have felt such undreamt joy at the moment and
then, when it was hers, a part of her life which nothing could ever undo
nor take from her, it was stranger still that the remembrance of this
wonderful joy should make her suddenly sad and thoughtful, that she
should lie awake at night, wishing that it had never been, and
tormenting herself with the idea that she had done an almost
irretrievable wrong. At the very moment when the coming day was breaking
upon her heart's twilight, a wall of darkness arose between her and the
future.
Much that is very good and true in the world is built upon the fanciful
fears of evil that warn girls' hearts of harm. There are dangers that
cannot be exaggerated, because the value of what they threaten cannot be
reckoned too great, so long as human goodness rests on the dangerous
quicksands of human nature.
Marietta had not realised what it meant to be betrothed to Jacopo
Contarini, until she had let her hand linger in Zorzi's. But after that,
one hour had not passed before she felt that she was living between two
alternatives that seemed almost equally terrible, and of which she must
choose the one or the other within two months. She must either marry
Contarini and never see Zorzi again, or she must refuse to be married
and face the tremendous consequences of her unheard-of wilfulness, her
father's anger, the just resentment of all the Contarini family, the
humiliation which her brothers would heap upon her, because, in the code
of those days, she would have brought shame on them and theirs. In those
times such results were very real and inevitable when a girl's formal
promise of marriage was broken, though she herself might never have been
consulted.
It was no wonder that Marietta was sleepless at night, and spent long
hours of the day sitting listless by her window without so much as
threading a score of beads from the little basket that stood beside her.
Nella came and went often, looked at her, and shook her head with a wise
smile.
"It is the thought of marriage," said the woman of the people to
herself. "She pines and grows pale now, because she is thinking that she
must leave her father's house so soon, and she is afraid to go among
strangers. But she will be happy by and by, like the swallows in
spring."
Nella remembered how frightened she herself had been when she was
betrothed to her departed Vito, and she was thereby much comforted as to
Marietta's condition. But she said nothing, after Marietta had coldly
repelled her first attempt to talk of the marriage, though she forgave
her mistress's frigid order to be silent, telling herself that no
right-minded young girl could possibly be natural and sweet tempered
under the circumstances. She was more than compensated for what might
have seemed harshness, by something that looked very much like a
concession. Marietta had not gone back to the laboratory since the
discovery of the new glass, and a week had passed since then.
Nella went every other day and did all that was necessary for Zorzi's
recovery. Each time she came he asked her about Marietta, in a rather
formal tone, as was becoming when he spoke of his master's daughter,
but hoping that Nella might have some message to deliver, and he was
more and more disappointed as he realised that Marietta did not mean to
send him any. She had gone away on that morning with a sort of
intimation that she would come back every day, but Nella did not so much
as hint that she ever meant to come back at all.
Zorzi went about on crutches, swinging his helpless foot as he walked,
for it still hurt him when he put it to the ground. He was pale and
thin, both from pain and from living shut up almost all day in the close
atmosphere of the laboratory. For a change, he began to come out into
the little garden, sometimes walking up and down on his crutches for a
few minutes, and then sitting down to rest on the bench under the
plane-tree, where Marietta had so often sat. Pasquale came and talked
with him sometimes, but Zorzi never went to the porter's lodge.
He felt that if he got as far as that he should inevitably open the door
and look up at Marietta's window, and he would not do it, for he was
hurt by her apparent indifference, after having allowed him to hold her
hand in his. She had not even asked through Nella what had become of the
beautiful glass. What he pretended to say to himself was that it would
be very wrong to go and stand outside the glass-house, where the porter
would certainly see him, and where he might be seen by any one else,
staring at the window of his master's daughter's room on the other side
of the canal. But what he really felt was that Marietta had treated him
capriciously and that if he had a particle of self-respect he must show
her that he did not care. For if Marietta was very like other carefully
brought up girls of her age, Zorzi was nothing more than a boy where
love was concerned, and like many boys who have struggled for existence
in a more or less corrupt world, he had heard much more of the
faithlessness and caprices of women in general than of the sensitiveness
and delicate timidity of innocent young girls.
Marietta was his perfect ideal, the most exquisite, the most beautiful
and the most lovable creature ever endowed with form and sent into the
world by the powers of good. He believed all this in his heart, with the
certainty of absolute knowledge. But he was quite incapable of
discerning the motives of her conduct towards him, and when he tried to
understand them, it was not his heart that felt, but his reason that
argued, having very little knowledge and no experience at all to help
it; and since his erring reason demonstrated something that offended his
self-esteem, his heart was hurt and nursed a foolish, small resentment
against what he truly loved better than life itself. At one time or
another most very young men in love have found themselves in that
condition, and have tormented themselves to the verge of fever and
distraction over imaginary hurts and wrongs. Was there ever a true lyric
poet who did not at least once in his early days believe himself the
victim of a heartless woman? And though long afterwards fate may have
brought him face to face with the tragedy of unhappy love, fierce with
passion and terrible with violent death, can he ever quite forget the
fancied sufferings of first youth, the stab of a thoughtless girl's
first unkind word, the sickening chill he felt under her first cold
look? And what would first love be, if young men and maidens came to it
with all the reason and cool self-judgment that long living brings?
Zorzi sought consolation in his art, and as soon as he could stand and
move about with his crutches he threw his whole pent-up energy into his
work. The accidental discovery of the red glass had unexpectedly given
him an empty crucible with which to make an experiment of his own, and
while the materials were fusing he attempted to obtain the new colour in
the other two, by dropping pieces of copper into each regardless of the
master's instructions. To his inexpressible disappointment he completely
failed in this, and the glass he produced was of the commonest tint.
Then he grew reckless; he removed the two crucibles that had contained
what had been made according to Beroviero's theories until he had added
the copper, and he began afresh according to his own belief.
On that very morning Giovanni Beroviero made a second visit to the
laboratory. He came, he said, to make sure that Zorzi was recovering
from his hurt, and Zorzi knew from Nella that Giovanni had made
inquiries about him. He put on an air of sympathy when he saw the
crutches.
"You will soon throw them aside," he said, "but I am sorry that you
should have to use them at all."
When he entered, Zorzi was introducing a new mixture, carefully
powdered, into one of the glass-pots with a small iron shovel. It was
clear that he must put it all in at once, and he excused himself for
going on with his work. Giovanni looked at the large quantity of the
mixed ingredients with an experienced eye, and at once made up his mind
that the crucible must have been quite empty. Zorzi was therefore
beginning to make some kind of glass on his own account. It followed
almost logically, according to Giovanni's view of men, fairly founded on
a knowledge of himself, that Zorzi was experimenting with the secrets of
Paolo Godi, which he and old Beroviero had buried together somewhere in
that very room. Now, ever since the boy had told his story, Giovanni had
been revolving plans for getting the manuscript into his possession
during a few days, in order to copy it. A new scheme now suggested
itself, and it looked so attractive that he at once attempted to carry
it out.
"It seems a pity," he said, "that a great artist like yourself should
spend time on fruitless experiments. You might be making very beautiful
things, which would sell for a high price."
Without desisting from his occupation Zorzi glanced at his visitor,
whose manner towards him had so entirely changed within a little more
than a week. With a waif's quick instinct he guessed that Giovanni
wanted something of him, but the generous instinct of the brave man
towards the coward made him accept what seemed to be meant for an
advance after a quarrel. It had never occurred to Zorzi to blame
Giovanni for the accident in the glass-house, and it would have been
very unjust to do so.
"I can blow glass tolerably, sir," Zorzi answered. "But none of you
great furnace owners would dare to employ me, in the face of the law.
Besides, I am your father's man. I owe everything I know to his
kindness."
"I do not see what that has to do with it," returned Giovanni; "it does
not diminish your merit, nor affect the truth of what I was saying. You
might be doing better things. Any one can weigh out sand and kelp-ashes,
and shovel them into a crucible!"
"Do you mean that the master might employ me for other work?" asked
Zorzi, smiling at the disdainful description of what he was doing.
"My father--or some one else," answered Giovanni. "And besides your
astonishing skill, I fancy that you possess much valuable knowledge of
glass-making. You cannot have worked for my father so many years without
learning some of the things he has taken great pains to hide from his
own sons."
He spoke the last words in a somewhat bitter tone, quite willing to let
Zorzi know that he felt himself injured.
"If I have learned anything of that sort by looking on and helping, when
I have been trusted, it is not mine to use elsewhere," said Zorzi,
rather proudly.
"That is a fine moral sentiment, my dear young friend, and does you
credit," replied Giovanni sententiously. "It is impossible not to
respect a man who carries a fortune in his head and refuses to profit by
it out of a delicate sense of honour."
"I should have very little respect for a man who betrayed his master's
secrets," said Zorzi.
"You know them then?" inquired the other with unusual blandness.
"I did not say so." Zorzi looked at him coldly.
"Oh no! Even to admit it might not be discreet. But apart from Paolo
Godi's secrets, which my father has left sealed in my care--"
At this astounding falsehood Zorzi started and looked at Giovanni in
unfeigned surprise.
"--but which nothing would induce me to examine," continued Giovanni
with perfect coolness, "there must be many others of my father's own,
which you have learned by watching him. I respect you for your
discretion. Why did you start and look at me when I said that the
manuscript was in my keeping?"
The question was well put, suddenly and without warning, and Zorzi was
momentarily embarrassed to find an answer. Giovanni judged that his
surprise proved the truth of the boy's story, and his embarrassment now
added certainty to the proof. But Zorzi rarely lost his self-possession
when he had a secret to keep.
"If I seemed astonished," he said, "it may have been because you had
just given me the impression that the master did not trust you, and I
know how careful he is of the manuscript."
"You know more than that, my friend," said Giovanni in a playful tone.
Zorzi had now filled the crucible and was replacing the clay rings which
narrow the aperture of the 'bocca.' He plastered more wet clay upon
them, and it pleased Giovanni to see how well he knew every detail of
the art, from the simplest to the most difficult operations.
"Would anything you can think of induce you to leave my father?"
Giovanni asked, as he had received no answer to his last remark. "Of
course, I do not mean to speak of mere money, though few people quite
despise it."
"That may be understood in more than one way," answered Zorzi
cautiously. "In the first place, do you mean that if I left the master,
it would be to go to another master, or to set up as a master myself?"
"Let us say that you might go to another glass-house for a fixed time,
with the promise of then having a furnace of your own. How does that
strike you?"
"No one can give such a promise and keep it," said Zorzi, scraping the
wet clay from his hands with a blunt knife.
"But suppose that some one could," insisted Giovanni.
"What is the use of supposing the impossible?" Zorzi shrugged his
shoulders and went on scraping.
"Nothing is impossible in the Republic, except what the Ten are resolved
to hinder. And that is really impossible."
"The Ten will not make new laws nor repeal old ones for the benefit of
an unknown Dalmatian."
"Perhaps not," answered Giovanni. "But on the other hand there is no
very great penalty if you set up a furnace of your own. If you are
discovered, your furnace will be put out, and you may have to pay a
fine. It is no great matter. It is a civil offence, not a criminal one."
"What is it that you wish of me?" asked Zorzi with sudden directness.
"You are a busy man. You have not come here to pass a morning in idle
conversation with your father's assistant. You want something of me,
sir. Speak out plainly. If I can do what you wish, I will do it. If I
cannot, I will tell you so, frankly."
Giovanni was a little disconcerted by this speech. Excepting where money
was concerned directly, his intelligence was of the sort that easily
wastes its energy in futile cunning. He had not meant to reach the point
for a long time, if he had expected to reach it at all at a first
attempt.
"I like your straightforwardness," he said evasively. "But I do not
think your conversation idle. On the contrary, I find it highly
instructive."
"Indeed?" Zorzi laughed. "You do me much honour, sir! What have you
learned from me this morning?"
"What I wished to know," answered Giovanni with a change of tone, and
looking at him keenly.
Zorzi returned the glance, and the two men faced each other in silence
for a moment. Zorzi knew what Giovanni meant, as soon as the other had
spoken. The quick movement of surprise, which was the only indiscretion
of which Zorzi had been guilty, would have betrayed to any one that he
knew where the manuscript was, even if it were not in his immediate
keeping. His instinct was to take the offensive and accuse his visitor
of having laid a trap for him, but his caution prevailed.
"Whatever you may think that you have learned from me," he said,
"remember that I have told you nothing."
"Is it here, in this room?" asked Giovanni, not heeding his last speech,
and hoping to surprise him again.
But he was prepared now, and his face did not change as he replied.
"I cannot answer any questions," he said.
"You and my father hid it together," returned Giovanni. "When you had
buried it under the stones in this room, you carried the earth out with
a shovel and scattered it about on a flower-bed. You took out three
shovelfuls of earth in that way. You see, I know everything. What is the
use of trying to hide your secret from me?"
Zorzi was now convinced that Giovanni himself had been lurking in the
garden.
"Sir," he said, with ill-concealed contempt for a man capable of such
spy's work, "if you have more to say of the same nature, pray say it to
your father, when he comes back."
"You misunderstand me," returned Giovanni with sudden mildness. "I had
no intention of offending you. I only meant to warn you that you were
watched on that night. The person who informed me has no doubt told many
others also. It would have been very ill for you, if my father had
returned to find that his secret was public property, and if you had
been unable to explain that you had not betrayed him. I have given you a
weapon of defence. You may call upon me to repeat what I have said, when
you speak with him."
"I am obliged to you, sir," said Zorzi coldly. "I shall not need to
disturb you."
"You are not wise," returned Giovanni gravely. "If I were
curious--fortunately for you I am not!--I would send for a mason and
have some of the stones of the pavement turned over before me. A mason
would soon find the one you moved by trying them all with his hammer."
"Yes," said Zorzi. "If this were a room in your own glass-house, you
could do that. But it is not."
"I am in charge of all that belongs to my father, during his absence,"
answered Giovanni.
"Yes," said Zorzi again. "Including Paolo Godi's manuscript, as you told
me," he added.
"You understand very well why I said that," Giovanni answered, with
visible annoyance.
"I only know that you said it," was the retort. "And as I cannot suppose
that you did not know what you were saying, still less that you
intentionally told an untruth, I really cannot see why you should
suggest bringing a mason here to search for what must be in your own
keeping."
Zorzi spoke with a quiet smile, for he felt that he had the best of it.
Be was surprised when Giovanni broke into a peal of rather affected
laughter.
"You are hard to catch!" he cried, and laughed again. "You did not
really suppose that I was in earnest? Why, every one knows that you have
the manuscript here."
"Then I suppose you spoke ironically," suggested Zorzi.
"Of course, of course! A mere jest! If I had known that you would take
it so literally--" he stopped short.
"Pray excuse me, sir. It is the first time I have ever heard you say
anything playful."
"Indeed! The fact is, my dear Zorzi, I never knew you well enough to
jest with you, till to-day. Paolo Godi's secrets in my keeping? I wish
they were! Oh, not that anything would induce me to break the seals. I
told you that. But I wish they were in my possession. I tell you, I
would pay down half my fortune to have them, for they would bring me
back four times as much within the year. Half my fortune! And I am not
poor, Zorzi."
"Half your fortune?" repeated Zorzi. "That is a large sum, I imagine.
Pray, sir, how much might half your fortune be, in round numbers? Ten
thousand silver lires?"
"Silver!" sneered Giovanni contemptuously.
"Gold, then?" suggested Zorzi, drawing him on.
"Gold? Well--possibly," admitted Giovanni with caution. "But of course I
was exaggerating. Ten thousand gold pounds would be too much, of course.
Say, five thousand."
"I thought you were richer than that," said Zorzi coolly.
"Do you mean that five thousand would not be enough to pay for the
manuscript?" asked Giovanni.
"The profits of glass-making are very large when one possesses a
valuable secret," said Zorzi. "Five thousand--" He paused, as though in
doubt, or as if making a mental calculation. Giovanni fell into the
trap.
"I would give six," he said, lowering his voice to a still more
confidential tone, and watching his companion eagerly.
"For six thousand gold lires," said Zorzi, smiling, "I am quite sure
that you could hire a ruffian to break in and cut the throat of the man
who has charge of the manuscript."
Giovanni's face fell, but he quickly assumed an expression of righteous
indignation.
"How can you dare to suggest that I would employ such means to rob my
father?" he cried.
"If it were your intention to rob your father, sir, I cannot see that it
would matter greatly what means you employed. But I was only jesting, as
you were when you said that you had the manuscript. I did not expect
that you would take literally what I said."
"I see, I see," answered Giovanni, accepting the means of escape Zorzi
offered him. "You were paying me back in my own coin! Well, well! It
served me right, after all. You have a ready wit."
"I thought that if my conversation were not as instructive as you had
hoped, I could at least try to make it amusing--light, gay, witty! I
trust you will not take it ill."
"Not I!" Giovanni tried to laugh. "But what a wonderful thing is this
human imagination of ours! Now, as I talked of the secrets, I forgot
that they were my father's, they seemed almost within my grasp, I was
ready to count out the gold, to count out six thousand gold lires. Think
of that!"
"They are worth it," said Zorzi quietly.
"You should know best," answered the other. "There is no such glass as
my father's for lightness and strength. If he had a dozen workmen like
you, my brother and I should be ruined in trying to compete with him. I
watched you very closely the other day, and I watched the others, too.
By the bye, my friend, was that really an accident, or does the man owe
you some grudge? I never saw such a thing happen before!"
"It was an accident, of course," replied Zorzi without hesitation.
"If you knew that the man had injured you intentionally, you should have
justice at once," said Giovanni. "As it is, I have no doubt that my
father will turn him out without mercy."
"I hope not." Zorzi would say nothing more.
Giovanni rose to go away. He stood still a moment in thought, and then
smiled suddenly as if recollecting himself.
"The imagination is an extraordinary thing!" he said, going back to the
past conversation. "At this very moment I was thinking again that I was
actually paying out the money--six thousand lires in gold! I must be
mad!"
"No," said Zorzi. "I think not."
Giovanni turned away, shaking his head and still smiling. To tell the
truth, though he knew Zorzi's character, he had not believed that any
one could refuse such a bribe, and he was trying to account for the
Dalmatian's integrity by reckoning up the expectations the young man
must have, to set against such a large sum of ready money. He could only
find one solution to the problem: Zorzi was already in full possession
of the secrets, and would therefore not sell them at any price, because
he hoped before long to set up for himself and make his own fortune by
them. If this were true, and he could not see how it could be otherwise,
he and his brother would be cheated of their heritage when their father
died.
It was clear that something must be done to hinder Zorzi from carrying
out his scheme. After all, Zorzi's own jesting proposal, that a ruffian
should be employed to cut his throat, was not to be rejected. It was a
simple plan, direct and conclusive. It might not be possible to find
the manuscript after all, but the only man who knew its contents would
be removed, and Beroviero's sons would inherit what should come to them
by right. Against this project there was the danger that the murderer
might some day betray the truth, under torture, or might come back again
and again, and demand more money; but the killing of a man who was not
even a Venetian, who was an interloper, who could be proved to have
abused his master's confidence, when he should be no longer alive to
defend himself, did not strike Giovanni as a very serious matter, and as
for any one ever forcing him to pay money which he did not wish to pay,
he knew that to be a feat beyond the ability of an ordinary person.
One other course suggested itself at once. He could forestall Zorzi by
writing to his father and telling him what he sincerely believed to be
the truth. He knew the old man well, and was sure that if once persuaded
that Zorzi had betrayed him by using the manuscript, he would be
merciless. The difficulty would lie in making Beroviero believe anything
against his favourite. Yet in Giovanni's estimation the proofs were
overwhelming. Besides, he had another weapon with which to rouse his
father's anger against the Dalmatian. Since Marietta had defied him and
had gone to see Zorzi in the laboratory, he had not found what he
considered a convenient opportunity of speaking to her on the subject;
that is to say, he had lacked the moral courage to do so at all. But it
would need no courage to complain of her conduct to their father, and
though Beroviero's anger might fall chiefly upon Marietta, a portion of
it would take effect against Zorzi. It would be one more force acting in
the direction of his ruin.
Giovanni went away to his own glass-house, meditating all manner of evil
to his enemy, and as he reckoned up the chances of success, he began to
wonder how he could have been so weak as to offer Zorzi an enormous
bribe, instead of proceeding at once to his destruction.
Unconscious of his growing danger, Zorzi fed the fire of the furnace,
and then sat down at the table before the window, laid his crutches
beside him, and began to write out the details of his own experiments,
as the master had done for years. He wrote the rather elaborate
characters of the fifteenth century in a small but clear hand, very
unlike old Beroviero's. The window was open, and the light breeze blew
in, fanning his heated forehead; for the weather was growing hotter and
hotter, and the order had been given to let the main furnaces cool after
the following Saturday, as the workmen could not bear the heat many days
longer. After that, they would set to work in a shed at the back of the
glass-house to knead the clay for making new crucibles, and the night
boys would enjoy their annual holiday, which consisted in helping the
workmen by treading the stiff clay in water for several hours every day.
A man's shadow darkened the window while Zorzi was writing, and he
looked up. Pasquale was standing outside.
"There is a pestering fellow at the door," he said, "who will not be
satisfied till he has spoken with you. He says he has a message for you
from some one in Venice, which he must deliver himself."
"For me?" Zorzi rose in surprise.
CHAPTER XIII
Zorzi swung himself along the dark corridor on his crutches after
Pasquale, who opened the outer door with his usual deliberation. A
little man stood outside in grey hose and a servant's dark coat,
gathered in at the waist by a leathern belt. He was clean shaven and his
hair was cropped close to his head, which was bare, for he held his
black hat in his hand. Zorzi did not like his face. He waited for Zorzi
to speak first.
"Have you a message for me?" asked the Dalmatian. "I am Zorzi."
"That is the name, sir," answered the man respectfully. "My master begs
the honour and pleasure of your company this evening, as usual."
"Where?" asked Zorzi.
"My master said that you would know the place, sir, having been there
before."
"What is your master's name?"
"The Angel," answered the man promptly, keeping his eyes on Zorzi's
face.
The latter nodded, and the servant at once made an awkward obeisance
preparatory to going away.
"Tell your master," said Zorzi, "that I have hurt my foot and am walking
on crutches, so that I cannot come this evening, but that I thank him
for his invitation, and send greeting to him and to the other guests."
The man repeated some of the words in a tone hardly audible, evidently
committing the message to memory.
"Signor Zorzi--hurt his foot--crutches--thanks--greeting," he mumbled.
"Yes, sir," he added in his ordinary voice, "I will say all that. Your
servant, sir."
With another awkward bow, he turned away to the right and walked very
quickly along the footway. He had left his boat at the entrance to the
canal, not knowing exactly where the glass-house was. Zorzi looked after
him a moment, then turned himself on his sound foot and set his crutches
before him to go in. Pasquale was there, and must have heard what had
passed. He shut the door and followed Zorzi back a little way.
"It is no concern of mine," he said roughly. "You may amuse yourself as
you please, for you are young, and your host may be the Archangel
Michael himself, or the holy Saint Mark, and the house to which you are
bidden may be a paradise full of other angels! But I would as soon sit
down before the grating and look at the hooded brother, while the
executioner slipped the noose over my head to strangle me, as to go to
any place on a bidding delivered by a fellow with such a jail-bird's
head. It is as round as a bullet and as yellow as cheese. He has eyes
like a turtle's and teeth like those of a young shark."
"I am quite of your opinion," said Zorzi, halting at the entrance to the
garden.
"Then why did you not kick him into the canal?" inquired the porter,
with admirable logic.
"Do I look as if I could kick anything?" asked Zorzi, laughing and
glancing at his lame foot.
"And where should I have been?" inquired Pasquale indignantly. "Asleep,
perhaps? If you had said 'kick,' I would have kicked. Perhaps I am a
statue!"
Zorzi pointed out that it was not usual to answer invitations in that
way, even when declining them.
"And who knows what sort of invitation it was?" retorted the old porter
discontentedly. "Since when have you friends in Venice who bid you come
to their houses at night, like a thief? Honest men, who are friends, say
'Come and eat with me at noon, for to-day we have this, or this'--say, a
roast sucking pig, or tripe with garlic. And perhaps you go; and when
you have eaten and drunk and it is the cool of the afternoon, you come
home. That is what Christians do. Who are they that meet at night? They
are thieves, or conspirators, or dice-players, or all three."
Pasquale happened to have been right in two guesses out of three, and
Zorzi thought it better to say nothing. There was no fear that the surly
old man would tell any one of the message; he had proved himself too
good a friend to Zorzi to do anything which could possibly bring him
into trouble, and Zorzi was willing to let him think what he pleased,
rather than run the smallest risk of betraying the society of which he
had been obliged to become a member. But he was curious to know why
Contarini kept such a singularly unprepossessing servant, and why, if he
chose to keep him, he made use of him to deliver invitations. The fellow
had the look of a born criminal; he was just such a man as Zorzi had
thought of when he had jestingly proposed to Giovanni to hire a
murderer. Indeed, the more Zorzi thought of his face, the more he was
inclined to doubt that the man came from Contarini at all.
But in this he was mistaken. The message was genuine, and moreover, so
far as Contarini and the society were concerned, the man was perfectly
trustworthy. Possibly there were reasons why Contarini chose to employ
him, and also why the servant was so consistently faithful to his
master. After all, Zorzi reflected, he was certainly ignorant of the
fact that the noble young idlers who met at the house of the Agnus Dei
were playing at conspiracy and revolution.
But that night, when Contarini's friends were assembled and had counted
their members, some one asked what had become of the Murano
glass-blower, and whether he was not going to attend their meetings in
future; and Contarini answered that Zorzi had hurt his foot and was on
crutches, and sent a greeting to the guests. Most of them were glad that
he was not there, for he was not of their own order, and his presence
caused a certain restraint in their talk. Besides, he was poor, and did
not play at dice.
"He works with Angelo Beroviero, does he not?" asked Zuan Venier in a
tone of weary indifference.
"Yes," answered Contarini with a laugh. "He is in the service of my
future father-in-law."
"To whom may heaven accord a speedy, painless and Christian death!"
laughed Foscari in his black beard.
"Not till I am one of his heirs, if you please," returned Contarini. "As
soon after the wedding day as you like, for besides her rich dowry, the
lady is to have a share of his inheritance."
"Is she very ugly?" asked Loredan. "Poor Jacopo! You have the sympathy
of the brethren."
"How does he know?" sneered Mocenigo. "He has never seen her. Besides,
why should he care, since she is rich?"
"You are mistaken, for I have seen her," said Contarini, looking down
the table. "She is not at all ill-looking, I assure you. The old man was
so much afraid that I would not agree to the match that he took her to
church so that I might look at her."
"And you did?" asked Mocenigo. "I should never have had the courage. She
might have been hideous, and in that case I should have preferred not to
find it out till I was married."
"I looked at her with some interest," said Contarini, smiling in a
self-satisfied way. "I am bound to say, with all modesty, that she also
looked at me," he added, passing his white hand over his thick hair.
"Of course," put in Foscari gravely. "Any woman would, I should think."
"I suppose so," answered Contarini complacently. "It is not my fault if
they do."
"Nor your misfortune," added Fosoari, with as much gravity as before.
Zuan Venier had not joined in the banter, which seemed to him to be of
the most atrocious taste. He had liked Zorzi and had just made up his
mind to go to Murano the next day and find him out.
