can do in fact as I like." It was wonderful for Milly how just to put
it so made all its pieces fall at present quite properly into places.
Yet even before the full effect came Kate had seized, kissed, blessed
her. "My love, you're too sweet! It's too dear! But it's as I was
sure." Then she grasped the full beauty. "You can do as you like?"
"Quite. Isn't it charming?"
"Ah, but catch you," Kate triumphed with gaiety, "not doing----! And
what shall you do?"
"For the moment simply enjoy it. Enjoy"--Milly was completely
luminous--"having got out of my scrape."
"Learning, you mean, so easily, that you are well."
It was as if Kate had but too conveniently put the words into her
mouth. "Learning, I mean, so easily, that I am well."
"Only, no one's of course well enough to stay in London now. He can't,"
Kate went on, "want this of you."
"Mercy, no--I'm to knock about. I'm to go to places."
"But not beastly 'climates'--Engadines, Rivieras, boredoms?"
"No; just, as I say, where I prefer. I'm to go in for pleasure."
"Oh, the duck!"--Kate, with her own shades of familiarity, abounded.
"But what kind of pleasure?"
"The highest," Milly smiled.
Her friend met it as nobly. "Which is the highest?"
"Well, it's just our chance to find out. You must help me."
"What have I wanted to do but help you," Kate asked, "from the moment I
first laid eyes on you?" Yet with this too Kate had her wonder. "I like
your talking, though, about that. What help, with your luck all round,
do you want?"
XIV
Milly indeed at last couldn't say; so that she had really for the time
brought it along to the point so oddly marked for her by her visitor's
arrival, the truth that she was enviably strong. She carried this out,
from that evening, for each hour still left her, and the more easily
perhaps that the hours were now narrowly numbered. All she actually
waited for was Sir Luke Strett's promised visit; as to her proceeding
on which, however, her mind was quite made up. Since he wanted to get
at Susie he should have the freest access, and then perhaps he would
see how he liked it. What was between them they might settle as
between them, and any pressure it should lift from her own spirit they
were at liberty to convert to their use. If the dear man wished to fire
Susan Shepherd with a still higher ideal, he would only after all, at
the worst, have Susan on his hands. If devotion, in a word, was what it
would come up for the interested pair to organise, she was herself
ready to consume it as the dressed and served dish. He had talked to
her of her "appetite" her account of which, she felt, must have been
vague. But for devotion, she could now see, this appetite would be of
the best. Gross, greedy, ravenous--these were doubtless the proper
names for her: she was at all events resigned in advance to the
machinations of sympathy. The day that followed her lonely excursion
was to be the last but two or three of their stay in London; and the
evening of that day practically ranked for them as, in the matter of
outside relations, the last of all. People were by this time quite
scattered, and many of those who had so liberally manifested in calls,
in cards, in evident sincerity about visits, later on, over the land,
had positively passed in music out of sight; whether as members, these
latter, more especially, of Mrs. Lowder's immediate circle or as
members of Lord Mark's--our friends being by this time able to make the
distinction. The general pitch had thus, decidedly, dropped, and the
occasions still to be dealt with were special and few. One of these,
for Milly, announced itself as the doctor's call already mentioned, as
to which she had now had a note from him: the single other, of
importance, was their appointed leave-taking--for the shortest
separation--in respect to Mrs. Lowder and Kate. The aunt and the niece
were to dine with them alone, intimately and easily--as easily as
should be consistent with the question of their afterwards going on
together to some absurdly belated party, at which they had had it from
Aunt Maud that they would do well to show. Sir Luke was to make his
appearance on the morrow of this, and in respect to that complication
Milly had already her plan.
The night was, at all events, hot and stale, and it was late enough by
the time the four ladies had been gathered in, for their small session,
at the hotel, where the windows were still open to the high balconies
and the flames of the candles, behind the pink shades--disposed as for
the vigil of watchers--were motionless in the air in which the season
lay dead. What was presently settled among them was that Milly, who
betrayed on this occasion a preference more marked than usual, should
not hold herself obliged to climb that evening the social stair,
however it might stretch to meet her, and that, Mrs. Lowder and Mrs.
Stringham facing the ordeal together, Kate Croy should remain with her
and await their return. It was a pleasure to Milly, ever, to send Susan
Shepherd forth; she saw her go with complacency, liked, as it were, to
put people off with her, and noted with satisfaction, when she so moved
to the carriage, the further denudation--a markedly ebbing tide--of her
little benevolent back. If it wasn't quite Aunt Maud's ideal, moreover,
to take out the new American girl's funny friend instead of the new
American girl herself, nothing could better indicate the range of that
lady's merit than the spirit in which--as at the present hour for
instance--she made the best of the minor advantage. And she did this
with a broad, cheerful absence of illusion; she did it--confessing even
as much to poor Susie--because, frankly, she was good-natured. When
Mrs. Stringham observed that her own light was too abjectly borrowed
and that it was as a link alone, fortunately not missing, that she was
valued, Aunt Maud concurred to the extent of the remark: "Well, my
dear, you're better than nothing." To-night, furthermore, it came up
for Milly that Aunt Maud had something particular in mind. Mrs.
Stringham, before adjourning with her, had gone off for some shawl or
other accessory, and Kate, as if a little impatient for their
withdrawal, had wandered out to the balcony, where she hovered, for the
time, unseen, though with scarce more to look at than the dim London
stars and the cruder glow, up the street, on a corner, of a small
public-house, in front of which a fagged cab-horse was thrown into
relief. Mrs. Lowder made use of the moment: Milly felt as soon as she
had spoken that what she was doing was somehow for use.
"Dear Susan tells me that you saw, in America, Mr. Densher--whom I've
never till now, as you may have noticed, asked you about. But do you
mind at last, in connection with him, doing something for me?" She had
lowered her fine voice to a depth, though speaking with all her rich
glibness; and Milly, after a small sharpness of surprise, was already
guessing the sense of her appeal. "Will you name him, in any way you
like, to her"--and Aunt Maud gave a nod at the window; "so that you
may perhaps find out whether he's back?"
Ever so many things, for Milly, fell into line at this; it was a
wonder, she afterwards thought, that she could be conscious of so many
at once. She smiled hard, however, for them all. "But I don't know that
it's important to me to 'find out.'" The array of things was further
swollen, however, even as she said this, by its striking her as too
much to say. She therefore tried as quickly to say less. "Except you
mean, of course, that it's important to you." She fancied Aunt Maud
was looking at her almost as hard as she was herself smiling, and that
gave her another impulse. "You know I never have yet named him to
her; so that if I should break out now----"
"Well?"--Mrs. Lowder waited.
"Why, she may wonder what I've been making a mystery of. She hasn't
mentioned him, you know," Milly went on, "herself."
"No"--her friend a little heavily weighed it--"she wouldn't. So it's
she, you see then, who has made the mystery."
Yes, Milly but wanted to see; only there was so much. "There has been
of course no particular reason." Yet that indeed was neither here nor
there. "Do you think," she asked, "he is back?"
"It will be about his time, I gather, and rather a comfort to me
definitely to know."
"Then can't you ask her yourself?"
"Ah, we never speak of him!"
It helped Milly for the moment to the convenience of a puzzled pause.
"Do you mean he's an acquaintance of whom you disapprove for her?"
Aunt Maud, as well, just hung fire. "I disapprove of her for the poor
young man. She doesn't care for him."
"And he cares so much----?"
"Too much, too much. And my fear is," said Mrs. Lowder, "that he
privately besets her. She keeps it to herself, but I don't want her
worried. Neither, in truth," she both generously and confidentially
concluded, "do I want him."
Milly showed all her own effort to meet the case. "But what can I do?"
"You can find out where they are. If I myself try," Mrs. Lowder
explained, "I shall appear to treat them as if I supposed them
deceiving me."
"And you don't. You don't," Milly mused for her, "suppose them
deceiving you."
"Well," said Aunt Maud, whose fine onyx eyes failed to blink, even
though Milly's questions might have been taken as drawing her rather
further than she had originally meant to go--"well, Kate is thoroughly
aware of my views for her, and that I take her being with me, at
present, in the way she is with me, if you know what I mean, as a loyal
assent to them. Therefore as my views don't happen to provide a place,
at all, for Mr. Densher, much, in a manner, as I like him"--therefore,
therefore in short she had been prompted to this step, though she
completed her sense, but sketchily, with the rattle of her large fan.
It assisted them perhaps, however, for the moment, that Milly was able
to pick out of her sense what might serve as the clearest part of it.
"You do like him then?"
"Oh dear, yes. Don't you?"
Milly hesitated, for the question was somehow as the sudden point of
something sharp on a nerve that winced. She just caught her breath, but
she had ground for joy afterwards, she felt, in not really having
failed to choose with quickness sufficient, out of fifteen possible
answers, the one that would best serve her. She was then almost proud,
as well, that she had cheerfully smiled. "I did--three times--in New
York." So came and went for her, in these simple words, the speech that
was to figure for her, later on, that night, as the one she had ever
uttered that cost her most. She was to lie awake, at all events, half
the night, for the gladness of not having taken any line so really
inferior as the denial of a happy impression.
For Mrs. Lowder also, moreover, her simple words were the right ones;
they were at any rate, that lady's laugh showed, in the natural note of
the racy. "You dear American thing! But people may be very good, and
yet not good for what one wants."
"Yes," the girl assented, "even I suppose when what one wants is
something very good."
"Oh, my child, it would take too long just now to tell you all I
want! I want everything at once and together--and ever so much for you
too, you know. But you've seen us," Aunt Maud continued; "you'll have
made out."
"Ah," said Milly, "I don't make out"; for again--it came that way in
rushes--she felt an obscurity in things. "Why, if our friend here
doesn't like him----"
"Should I conceive her interested in keeping things from me?" Mrs.
Lowder did justice to the question. "My dear, how can you ask? Put
yourself in her place. She meets me, but on her terms. Proud young
women are proud young women. And proud old ones are--well, what I am.
Fond of you as we both are, you can help us."
Milly tried to be inspired. "Does it come back then to my asking her
straight?"
At this, however, finally, Aunt Maud threw her up. "Oh, if you've so
many reasons not----!"
"I've not so many," Milly smiled "but I've one. If I break out so
suddenly as knowing him, what will she make of my not having spoken
before?"
Mrs. Lowder looked blank at it. "Why should you care what she makes?
You may have only been decently discreet."
"Ah, I have been," the girl made haste to say.
"Besides," her friend went on, "I suggested to you, through Susan, your
line."
"Yes, that reason's a reason for me."
"And for me," Mrs. Lowder insisted. "She's not therefore so stupid as
not to do justice to grounds so marked. You can tell her perfectly that
I had asked you to say nothing."
"And may I tell her that you've asked me now to speak?"
Mrs. Lowder might well have thought, yet, oddly, this pulled her up.
"You can't do it without----?"
Milly was almost ashamed to be raising so many difficulties. "I'll do
what I can if you'll kindly tell me one thing more." She faltered a
little--it was so prying; but she brought it out. "Will he have been
writing to her?"
"It's exactly, my dear, what I should like to know." Mrs. Lowder was at
last impatient. "Push in for yourself, and I dare say she'll tell you."
Even now, all the same, Milly had not quite fallen back. "It will be
pushing in," she continued to smile, "for you" She allowed her
companion, however, no time to take this up. "The point will be that if
he has been writing she may have answered."
"But what point, you subtle thing, is that?"
"It isn't subtle, it seems to me, but quite simple," Milly said, "that
if she has answered she has very possibly spoken of me."
"Very certainly indeed. But what difference will it make?"
The girl had a moment, at this, of thinking it natural that her
interlocutress herself should so fail of subtlety. "It will make the
difference that he will have written to her in answer that he knows me.
And that, in turn," our young woman explained, "will give an oddity to
my own silence."
"How so, if she's perfectly aware of having given you no opening? The
only oddity," Aunt Maud lucidly professed, "is for yourself. It's in
her not having spoken."
"Ah, there we are!" said Milly.
And she had uttered it, evidently, in a tone that struck her friend.
"Then it has troubled you?"
But ah, the inquiry had only to be made to bring the rare colour with
fine inconsequence, to her face. "Not, really, the least little bit!"
And, quickly feeling the need to abound in this sense, she was on the
point, to cut short, of declaring that she cared, after all, no scrap
how much she obliged. Only she felt at this instant too the
intervention of still other things. Mrs. Lowder was, in the first
place, already beforehand, already affected as by the sudden vision of
her having herself pushed too far. Milly could never judge from her
face of her uppermost motive--it was so little, in its hard, smooth
sheen, that kind of human countenance. She looked hard when she spoke
fair; the only thing was that when she spoke hard she likewise didn't
look soft. Something, none the less, had arisen in her now--a full
appreciable tide, entering by the rupture of some bar. She announced
that if what she had asked was to prove in the least a bore her young
friend was not to dream of it; making her young friend at the same
time, by the change in her tone, dream on the spot more profusely. She
spoke with a belated light, Milly could apprehend--she could always
apprehend--from pity; and the result of that perception, for the girl,
was singular: it proved to her as quickly that Kate, keeping her
secret, had been straight with her. From Kate distinctly then, as to
why she was to be pitied, Aunt Maud knew nothing, and was thereby
simply putting in evidence the fine side of her own character. This
fine side was that she could almost at any hour, by a kindled
preference or a diverted energy, glow for another interest than her
own. She exclaimed as well, at this moment, that Milly must have been
thinking, round the case, much more than she had supposed; and this
remark could, at once, affect the girl as sharply as any other form of
the charge of weakness. It was what everyone, if she didn't look out,
would soon be saying--"There's something the matter with you!" What one
was therefore one's self concerned immediately to establish was that
there was nothing at all. "I shall like to help you; I shall like, so
far as that goes, to help Kate herself," she made such haste as she
could to declare; her eyes wandering meanwhile across the width of the
room to that dusk of the balcony in which their companion perhaps a
little unaccountably lingered. She suggested hereby her impatience to
begin; she almost overtly wondered at the length of the opportunity
this friend was giving them--referring it, however, so far as words
went, to the other friend, breaking off with an amused: "How
tremendously Susie must be beautifying!"
It only marked Aunt Maud, none the less, as too preoccupied for her
allusion. The onyx eyes were fixed upon her with a polished pressure
that must signify some enriched benevolence. "Let it go, my dear. We
shall, after all, soon enough see."
"If he has come back we shall certainly see," Milly after a moment
replied; "for he'll probably feel that he can't quite civilly not come
to see me. Then there," she remarked, "we shall be. It wouldn't then,
you see, come through Kate at all--it would come through him. Except,"
she wound up with a smile, "that he won't find me."
She had the most extraordinary sense of interesting her interlocutress,
in spite of herself, more than she wanted; it was as if her doom so
floated her on that she couldn't stop--by very much the same trick it
had played her with her doctor. "Shall you run away from him?"
She neglected the question, wanting only now to get off. "Then," she
went on, "you'll deal with Kate directly."
"Shall you run away from her?" Mrs. Lowder profoundly inquired, while
they became aware of Susie's return through the room, opening out
behind them, in which they had dined.
This affected Milly as giving her but an instant; and suddenly, with
it, everything she felt in the connection rose to her lips in a
question that, even as she put it, she knew she was failing to keep
colourless. "Is it your own belief that he is with her?"
Aunt Maud took it in--took in, that is, everything of the tone that she
just wanted her not to; and the result for some seconds, was but to
make their eyes meet in silence. Mrs. Stringham had rejoined them and
was asking if Kate had gone--an inquiry at once answered by this young
lady's reappearance. They saw her again in the open window, where,
looking at them, she had paused--producing thus, on Aunt Maud's part,
almost too impressive a "Hush!" Mrs. Lowder indeed, without loss of
time, smothered any danger in a sweeping retreat with Susie; but
Milly's words to her, just uttered, about dealing with her niece
directly, struck our young woman as already recoiling on herself.
Directness, however evaded, would be, fully, for her; nothing in fact
would ever have been for her so direct as the evasion. Kate had
remained in the window, very handsome and upright, the outer dark
framing in a highly favourable way her summery simplicities and
lightnesses of dress. Milly had, given the relation of space, no real
fear she had heard their talk; only she hovered there as with conscious
eyes and some added advantage. Then indeed, with small delay, her
friend sufficiently saw. The conscious eyes, the added advantage were
but those she had now always at command--those proper to the person
Milly knew as known to Merton Densher. It was for several seconds again
as if the total of her identity had been that of the person known to
him--a determination having for result another sharpness of its own.
Kate had positively but to be there just as she was to tell her he had
come back. It seemed to pass between them, in fine, without a word,
that he was in London, that he was perhaps only round the corner; and
surely therefore no dealing of Milly's with her would yet have been so
direct.
XV
It was doubtless because this queer form of directness had in itself,
for the hour, seemed so sufficient that Milly was afterwards aware of
having really, all the while--during the strange, indescribable session
before the return of their companions--done nothing to intensify it. If
she was most aware only afterwards, under the long, discurtained ordeal
of the morrow's dawn, that was because she had really, till their
evening's end came, ceased, after a little, to miss anything from their
ostensible comfort. What was behind showed but in gleams and glimpses;
what was in front never at all confessed to not holding the stage.
Three minutes had not passed before Milly quite knew she should have
done nothing Aunt Maud had just asked her. She knew it moreover by much
the same light that had acted for her with that lady and with Sir Luke
Strett. It pressed upon her then and there that she was still in a
current determined, through her indifference, timidity, bravery,
generosity--she scarce could say which--by others; that not she but the
current acted, and that somebody else, always, was the keeper of the
lock or the dam. Kate for example had but to open the flood-gate: the
current moved in its mass--the current, as it had been, of her doing as
Kate wanted. What, somehow, in the most extraordinary way in the world,
had Kate wanted but to be, of a sudden, more interesting than she had
ever been? Milly, for their evening then, quite held her breath with
the appreciation of it. If she hadn't been sure her companion would
have had nothing, from her moments with Mrs. Lowder, to go by, she
would almost have seen the admirable creature "cutting in" to
anticipate a danger. This fantasy indeed, while they sat together,
dropped after a little; even if only because other fantasies multiplied
and clustered, making fairly, for our young woman, the buoyant medium
in which her friend talked and moved. They sat together, I say, but
Kate moved as much as she talked; she figured there, restless and
charming, just perhaps a shade perfunctory, repeatedly quitting her
place, taking slowly, to and fro, in the trailing folds of her light
dress, the length of the room, and almost avowedly performing for the
pleasure of her hostess.
Mrs. Lowder had said to Milly at Matcham that she and her niece, as
allies, could practically conquer the world; but though it was a speech
about which there had even then been a vague, grand glamour, the girl
read into it at present more of an approach to a meaning. Kate, for
that matter, by herself, could conquer anything, and she, Milly
Theale, was probably concerned with the "world" only as the small scrap
of it that most impinged on her and that was therefore first to be
dealt with. On this basis of being dealt with she would doubtless
herself do her share of the conquering: she would have something to
supply, Kate something to take--each of them thus, to that tune,
something for squaring with Aunt Maud's ideal. This in short was what
it came to now--that the occasion, in the quiet late lamplight, had the
quality of a rough rehearsal of the possible big drama. Milly knew
herself dealt with--handsomely, completely: she surrendered to the
knowledge, for so it was, she felt, that she supplied her helpful
force. And what Kate had to take Kate took as freely and, to all
appearance, as gratefully; accepting afresh, with each of her long,
slow walks, the relation between them so established and consecrating
her companion's surrender simply by the interest she gave it. The
interest to Milly herself we naturally mean; the interest to Kate Milly
felt as probably inferior. It easily and largely came for their present
talk, for the quick flight of the hour before the breach of the
spell--it all came, when considered, from the circumstance, not in the
least abnormal, that the handsome girl was in extraordinary "form."
Milly remembered her having said that she was at her best late at
night; remembered it by its having, with its fine assurance, made her
wonder when she was at her best and how happy people must be who had
such a fixed time. She had no time at all; she was never at her
best--unless indeed it were exactly, as now, in listening, watching,
admiring, collapsing. If Kate moreover, quite mercilessly, had never
been so good, the beauty and the marvel of it was that she had never
really been so frank; being a person of such a calibre, as Milly would
have said, that, even while "dealing" with you and thereby, as it were,
picking her steps, she could let herself go, could, in irony, in
confidence, in extravagance, tell you things she had never told before.
That was the impression--that she was telling things, and quite
conceivably for her own relief as well; almost as if the errors of
vision, the mistakes of proportion, the residuary innocence of spirit
still to be remedied on the part of her auditor had their moments of
proving too much for her nerves. She went at them just now, these
sources of irritation, with an amused energy that it would have been
open to Milly to regard as cynical and that was nevertheless called
for--as to this the other was distinct--by the way that in certain
connections the American mind broke down. It seemed at least--the
American mind as sitting there thrilled and dazzled in Milly--not to
understand English society without a separate confrontation with all
the cases. It couldn't proceed by--there was some technical term she
lacked until Milly suggested both analogy and induction, and then,
differently, instinct, none of which were right: it had to be led up
and introduced to each aspect of the monster, enabled to walk all round
it, whether for the consequent exaggerated ecstasy or for the still
more as appeared to this critic disproportionate shock. It might, the
monster, Kate conceded, loom large for those born amid forms less
developed and therefore no doubt less amusing; it might on some sides
be a strange and dreadful monster, calculated to devour the unwary, to
abase the proud, to scandalize the good; but if one had to live with it
one must, not to be for ever sitting up, learn how: which was virtually
in short to-night what the handsome girl showed herself as teaching.
She gave away publicly, in this process, Lancaster Gate and everything
it contained; she gave away, hand over hand, Milly's thrill continued
to note, Aunt Maud and Aunt Maud's glories and Aunt Maud's
complacencies; she gave herself away most of all, and it was naturally
what most contributed to her candour. She didn't speak to her friend
once more, in Aunt Maud's strain, of how they could scale the skies;
she spoke, by her bright, perverse preference on this occasion, of the
need, in the first place, of being neither stupid nor vulgar. It might
have been a lesson, for our young American, in the art of seeing things
as they were--a lesson so various and so sustained that the pupil had,
as we have shown, but receptively to gape. The odd thing furthermore
was that it could serve its purpose while explicitly disavowing every
personal bias. It wasn't that she disliked Aunt Maud, who was
everything she had on other occasions declared; but the dear woman,
ineffaceably stamped by inscrutable nature and a dreadful art,
wasn't--how could she be?--what she wasn't. She wasn't any one. She
wasn't anything. She wasn't anywhere. Milly mustn't think it--one
couldn't, as a good friend, let her. Those hours at Matcham were
inespérées, were pure manna from heaven; or if not wholly that
perhaps, with humbugging old Lord Mark as a backer, were vain as a
ground for hopes and calculations. Lord Mark was very well, but he
wasn't the cleverest creature in England, and even if he had been he
still wouldn't have been the most obliging. He weighed it out in
ounces, and indeed each of the pair was really waiting for what the
other would put down.
"She has put down you." said Milly, attached to the subject still;
"and I think what you mean is that, on the counter, she still keeps
hold of you."
"Lest"--Kate took it up--"he should suddenly grab me and run? Oh, as he
isn't ready to run, he's much less ready, naturally, to grab. I
am--you're so far right as that--on the counter, when I'm not in the
shop-window; in and out of which I'm thus conveniently, commercially
whisked: the essence, all of it, of my position, and the price, as
properly, of my aunt's protection." Lord Mark was substantially what
she had begun with as soon as they were alone; the impression was even
yet with Milly of her having sounded his name, having imposed it, as a
topic, in direct opposition to the other name that Mrs. Lowder had left
in the air and that all her own look, as we have seen, kept there at
first for her companion. The immediate strange effect had been that of
her consciously needing, as it were, an alibi--which, successfully, she
so found. She had worked it to the end, ridden it to and fro across the
course marked for Milly by Aunt Maud, and now she had quite, so to
speak, broken it in. "The bore is that if she wants him so much--wants
him, heaven forgive her! for me--he has put us all out, since your
arrival, by wanting somebody else. I don't mean somebody else than you."
Milly threw off the charm sufficiently to shake her head. "Then I
haven't made out who it is. If I'm any part of his alternative he had
better stop where he is."
"Truly, truly?--always, always?"
Milly tried to insist with an equal gaiety. "Would you like me to
swear?"
Kate appeared for a moment--though that was doubtless but gaiety
too--to think. "Haven't we been swearing enough?"
"You have perhaps, but I haven't, and I ought to give you the
equivalent. At any rate there it is. Truly, truly as you say--'always,
always.' So I'm not in the way."
"Thanks," said Kate--"but that doesn't help me."
"Oh, it's as simplifying for him that I speak of it."
"The difficulty really is that he's a person with so many ideas that
it's particularly hard to simplify for him. That's exactly of course
what Aunt Maud has been trying. He won't," Kate firmly continued, "make
up his mind about me."
"Well," Milly smiled, "give him time."
Her friend met it in perfection. "One is doing that--one is. But
one remains, all the same, but one of his ideas."
"There's no harm in that," Milly returned, "if you come out in the end
as the best of them. What's a man," she pursued, "especially an
ambitious one, without a variety of ideas?"
"No doubt. The more the merrier." And Kate looked at her grandly. "One
can but hope to come out, and do nothing to prevent it."
All of which made for the impression, fantastic or not, of the alibi.
The splendour, the grandeur were, for Milly, the bold ironic spirit
behind it, so interesting too in itself. What, moreover, was not less
interesting was the fact, as our young woman noted it, that Kate
confined her point to the difficulties, so far as she was concerned,
raised only by Lord Mark. She referred now to none that her own taste
might present; which circumstance again played its little part. She was
doing what she liked in respect to another person, but she was in no
way committed to the other person, and her furthermore talking of Lord
Mark as not young and not true were only the signs of her clear
self-consciousness, were all in the line of her slightly hard, but
scarce the less graceful extravagance. She didn't wish to show too much
her consent to be arranged for, but that was a different thing from not
wishing sufficiently to give it. There was something moreover, on it
all, that Milly still found occasion to say, "If your aunt has been, as
you tell me, put out by me, I feel that she has remained remarkably
kind."
"Oh, but she has--whatever might have happened in that respect--plenty
of use for you! You put her in, my dear, more than you put her out. You
don't half see it, but she has clutched your petticoat. You can do
anything--you can do, I mean, lots that we can't. You're an outsider,
independent and standing by yourself; you're not hideously relative to
tiers and tiers of others." And Kate, facing in that direction, went
further and further; wound up, while Milly gaped, with extraordinary
words. "We're of no use to you--it's decent to tell you. You'd be of
use to us, but that's a different matter. My honest advice to you would
be--" she went indeed all lengths--"to drop us while you can. It would
be funny if you didn't soon see how awfully better you can do. We've
not really done for you the least thing worth speaking of--nothing you
mightn't easily have had in some other way. Therefore you're under no
obligation. You won't want us next year; we shall only continue to want
you. But that's no reason for you, and you mustn't pay too dreadfully
for poor Mrs. Stringham's having let you in. She has the best
conscience in the world; she's enchanted with what she has done; but
you shouldn't take your people from her. It has been quite awful to
see you do it."
Milly tried to be amused, so as not--it was too absurd--to be fairly
frightened. Strange enough indeed--if not natural enough--that, late at
night thus, in a mere mercenary house, with Susie away, a want of
confidence should possess her. She recalled, with all the rest of it,
the next day, piecing things together in the dawn, that she had felt
herself alone with a creature who paced like a panther. That was a
violent image, but it made her a little less ashamed of having been
scared. For all her scare, none the less, she had now the sense to find
words. "And yet without Susie I shouldn't have had you."
It had been at this point, however, that Kate flickered highest. "Oh,
you may very well loathe me yet!"
Really at last, thus, it had been too much; as, with her own least
feeble flare, after a wondering watch, Milly had shown. She hadn't
cared; she had too much wanted to know; and, though a small solemnity
of reproach, a sombre strain, had broken into her tone, it was to
figure as her nearest approach to serving Mrs. Lowder. "Why do you say
such things to me?"
This unexpectedly had acted, by a sudden turn of Kate's attitude, as a
happy speech. She had risen as she spoke, and Kate had stopped before
her, shining at her instantly with a softer brightness. Poor Milly
hereby enjoyed one of her views of how people, wincing oddly, were
often touched by her. "Because you're a dove." With which she felt
herself ever so delicately, so considerately, embraced; not with
familiarity or as a liberty taken, but almost ceremonially and in the
manner of an accolade; partly as if, though a dove who could perch on a
finger, one were also a princess with whom forms were to be observed.
It even came to her, through the touch of her companion's lips, that
this form, this cool pressure, fairly sealed the sense of what Kate had
just said. It was moreover, for the girl, like an inspiration: she
found herself accepting as the right one, while she caught her breath
with relief, the name so given her. She met it on the instant as she
would have met the revealed truth; it lighted up the strange dusk in
which she lately had walked. That was what was the matter with her.
She was a dove. Oh, wasn't she?--it echoed within her as she became
aware of the sound, outside, of the return of their friends. There was,
the next thing, little enough doubt about it after Aunt Maud had been
two minutes in the room. She had come up, Mrs. Lowder, with
Susan--which she needn't have done, at that hour, instead of letting
Kate come down to her; so that Milly could be quite sure it was to
catch hold, in some way, of the loose end they had left. Well, the way
she did catch was simply to make the point that it didn't now in the
least matter. She had mounted the stairs for this, and she had her
moment again with her younger hostess while Kate, on the spot, as the
latter at the time noted, gave Susan Shepherd unwonted opportunities.
Kate was in other words, as Aunt Maud engaged her friend, listening
with the handsomest response to Mrs. Stringham's impression of the
scene they had just quitted. It was in the tone of the fondest
indulgence--almost, really, that of dove cooing to dove--that Mrs.
Lowder expressed to Milly the hope that it had all gone beautifully.
Her "all" had an ample benevolence; it soothed and simplified; she
spoke as if it were the two young women, not she and her comrade, who
had been facing the town together. But Milly's answer had prepared
itself while Aunt Maud was on the stair; she had felt in a rush all the
reasons that would make it the most dovelike; and she gave it, while
she was about it, as earnest, as candid. "I don't think, dear lady,
he's here."
It gave her straightway the measure of the success she could have as a
dove: that was recorded in the long look of deep criticism, a look
without a word, that Mrs. Lowder poured forth. And the word, presently,
bettered it still. "Oh, you exquisite thing!" The luscious innuendo of
it, almost startling, lingered in the room, after the visitors had
gone, like an oversweet fragrance. But left alone with Mrs. Stringham
Milly continued to breathe it: she studied again the dovelike and so
set her companion to mere rich reporting that she averted all inquiry
into her own case.
That, with the new day, was once more her law--though she saw before
her, of course, as something of a complication, her need, each time, to
decide. She should have to be clear as to how a dove would act. She
settled it, she thought, well enough this morning by quite readopting
her plan in respect to Sir Luke Strett. That, she was pleased to
reflect, had originally been pitched in the key of a merely iridescent
drab; and although Mrs. Stringham, after breakfast, began by staring at
it as if it had been a priceless Persian carpet suddenly unrolled at
her feet, she had no scruple, at the end of five minutes, in leaving
her to make the best of it. "Sir Luke Strett comes, by appointment, to
see me at eleven, but I'm going out on purpose. He's to be told,
please, deceptively, that I'm at home, and, you, as my representative,
when he comes up, are to see him instead. He will like that, this time,
better. So do be nice to him." It had taken, naturally, more
explanation, and the mention, above all, of the fact that the visitor
was the greatest of doctors; yet when once the key had been offered
Susie slipped it on her bunch, and her young friend could again feel
her lovely imagination operate. It operated in truth very much as Mrs.
Lowder's, at the last, had done the night before: it made the air heavy
once more with the extravagance of assent. It might, afresh, almost
have frightened our young woman to see how people rushed to meet her:
had she then so little time to live that the road must always be
spared her? It was as if they were helping her to take it out on the
spot. Susie--she couldn't deny, and didn't pretend to--might, of a
truth, on her side, have treated such news as a flash merely lurid;
as to which, to do Susie justice, the pain of it was all there. But,
none the less, the margin always allowed her young friend was all there
as well; and the proposal now made her what was it in short but
Byzantine? The vision of Milly's perception of the propriety of the
matter had, at any rate, quickly engulfed, so far as her attitude was
concerned, any surprise and any shock; so that she only desired, the
next thing, perfectly to possess the facts. Milly could easily speak,
on this, as if there were only one: she made nothing of such another as
that she had felt herself menaced. The great fact, in fine, was that
she knew him to desire just now, more than anything else, to meet,
quite apart, some one interested in her. Who therefore so interested as
her faithful Susan? The only other circumstance that, by the time she
had quitted her friend, she had treated as worth mentioning was the
circumstance of her having at first intended to keep quiet. She had
originally best seen herself as sweetly secretive. As to that she had
changed, and her present request was the result. She didn't say why she
had changed, but she trusted her faithful Susan. Their visitor would
trust her not less, and she herself would adore their visitor. Moreover
he wouldn't--the girl felt sure--tell her anything dreadful. The worst
would be that he was in love and that he needed a confidant to work it.
And now she was going to the National Gallery.
XVI
The idea of the National Gallery had been with her from the moment of
her hearing from Sir Luke Strett about his hour of coming. It had been
in her mind as a place so meagrely visited, as one of the places that
had seemed at home one of the attractions of Europe and one of its
highest aids to culture, but that--the old story--the typical frivolous
always ended by sacrificing to vulgar pleasures. She had had perfectly,
at those whimsical moments on the Brünig, the half-shamed sense of
turning her back on such opportunities for real improvement as had
figured to her, from of old, in connection with the continental tour,
under the general head of "pictures and things"; and now she knew for
what she had done so. The plea had been explicit--she had done so for
life, as opposed to learning; the upshot of which had been that life
was now beautifully provided for. In spite of those few dips and dashes
into the many-coloured stream of history for which of late Kate Croy
had helped her to find time, there were possible great chances she had
neglected, possible great moments she should, save for to-day, have all
but missed. She might still, she had felt, overtake one or two of them
among the Titians and the Turners; she had been honestly nursing the
hour, and, once she was in the benignant halls, her faith knew itself
justified. It was the air she wanted and the world she would now
exclusively choose; the quiet chambers, nobly overwhelming, rich but
slightly veiled, opened out round her and made her presently say "If I
could lose myself here!" There were people, people in plenty, but,
admirably, no personal question. It was immense, outside, the personal
question; but she had blissfully left it outside, and the nearest it
came, for a quarter of an hour, to glimmering again into sight was when
she watched for a little one of the more earnest of the lady-copyists.
Two or three in particular, spectacled, aproned, absorbed, engaged her
sympathy to an absurd extent, seemed to show her for the time the right
way to live. She should have been a lady copyist--it met so the case.
The case was the case of escape, of living under water, of being at
once impersonal and firm. There it was before one--one had only to
stick and stick.
Milly yielded to this charm till she was almost ashamed; she watched
the lady-copyists till she found herself wondering what would be
thought by others of a young woman, of adequate aspect, who should
appear to regard them as the pride of the place. She would have liked
to talk to them, to get, as it figured to her, into their lives, and
was deterred but by the fact that she didn't quite see herself as
purchasing imitations and yet feared she might excite the expectation
of purchase. She really knew before long that what held her was the
mere refuge, that something within her was after all too weak for the
Turners and Titians. They joined hands about her in a circle too vast,
though a circle that a year before she would only have desired to
trace. They were truly for the larger, not for the smaller life, the
life of which the actual pitch, for example, was an interest, the
interest of compassion, in misguided efforts. She marked absurdly her
little stations, blinking, in her shrinkage of curiosity, at the
glorious walls, yet keeping an eye on vistas and approaches, so that
she shouldn't be flagrantly caught. The vistas and approaches drew her
in this way from room to room, and she had been through many parts of
the show, as she supposed, when she sat down to rest. There were chairs
in scant clusters, places from which one could gaze. Milly indeed at
present fixed her eyes more than elsewhere on the appearance, first,
that she couldn't quite, after all, have accounted to an examiner for
the order of her "schools," and then on that of her being more tired
than she had meant, in spite of her having been so much less
intelligent. They found, her eyes, it should be added, other occupation
as well, which she let them freely follow: they rested largely, in her
vagueness, on the vagueness of other visitors; they attached themselves
in especial, with mixed results, to the surprising stream of her
compatriots. She was struck with the circumstance that the great
museum, early in August, was haunted with these pilgrims, as also with
that of her knowing them from afar, marking them easily, each and all,
and recognising not less promptly that they had ever new lights for
her--new lights on their own darkness. She gave herself up at last, and
it was a consummation like another: what she should have come to the
National Gallery for to-day would be to watch the copyists and reckon
the Baedekers. That perhaps was the moral of a menaced state of
health--that one would sit in public places and count the Americans. It
passed the time in a manner; but it seemed already the second line of
defence, and this notwithstanding the pattern, so unmistakable, of her
country-folk. They were cut out as by scissors, coloured, labelled,
mounted; but their relation to her failed to act--they somehow did
nothing for her. Partly, no doubt, they didn't so much as notice or
know her, didn't even recognise their community of collapse with her,
the sign on her, as she sat there, that for her too Europe was "tough."
It came to her idly thus--for her humour could still play--that she
didn't seem then the same success with them as with the inhabitants of
London, who had taken her up on scarce more of an acquaintance. She
could wonder if they would be different should she go back with that
glamour attached; and she could also wonder, if it came to that,
whether she should ever go back. Her friends straggled past, at any
rate, in all the vividness of their absent criticism, and she had even
at last the sense of taking a mean advantage. There was a finer
instant, however, at which three ladies, clearly a mother and
daughters, had paused before her under compulsion of a comment
apparently just uttered by one of them and referring to some object on
the other side of the room. Milly had her back to the object, but her
face very much to her young compatriot, the one who had spoken and in
whose look she perceived a certain gloom of recognition. Recognition,
for that matter, sat confessedly in her own eyes: she knew the three,
generically, as easily as a schoolboy with a crib in his lap would know
the answer in class; she felt, like the schoolboy, guilty
enough--questioned, as honour went, as to her right so to possess, to
dispossess, people who hadn't consciously provoked her. She would have
been able to say where they lived, and how, had the place and the way
been but amenable to the positive; she bent tenderly, in imagination,
over marital, paternal Mr. Whatever-he-was, at home, eternally named,
with all the honours and placidities, but eternally unseen and existing
only as some one who could be financially heard from. The mother, the
puffed and composed whiteness of whose hair had no relation to her
apparent age, showed a countenance almost chemically clean and dry; her
companions wore an air of vague resentment humanised by fatigue; and
the three were equally adorned with short cloaks of coloured cloth
surmounted by little tartan hoods. The tartans were doubtless
conceivable as different, but the cloaks, curiously, only thinkable as
one. "Handsome? Well, if you choose to say so." It was the mother who
had spoken, who herself added, after a pause during which Milly took
the reference as to a picture: "In the English style." The three pair
of eyes had converged, and their possessors had for an instant rested,
with the effect of a drop of the subject, on this last
characterisation--with that, too, of a gloom not less mute in one of
the daughters than murmured in the other. Milly's heart went out to
them while they turned their backs; she said to herself that they ought
to have known her, that there was something between them they might
have beautifully put together. But she had lost them also--they were
cold; they left her in her weak wonder as to what they had been looking
at. The "handsome" disposed her to turn--all the more that the "English
style" would be the English school, which she liked; only she saw,
before moving, by the array on the side facing her, that she was in
fact among small Dutch pictures. The action of this was again
appreciable--the dim surmise that it wouldn't then be by a picture that
the spring in the three ladies had been pressed. It was at all events
time she should go, and she turned as she got on her feet. She had had
behind her one of the entrances and various visitors who had come in
while she sat, visitors single and in pairs--by one of the former of
whom she felt her eyes suddenly held.
This was a gentleman in the middle of the place, a gentleman who had
removed his hat and was for a moment, while he glanced, absently, as
she could see, at the top tier of the collection, tapping his forehead
with his pocket-handkerchief. The occupation held him long enough to
give Milly time to take for granted--and a few seconds sufficed--that
his face was the object just observed by her friends. This could only
have been because she concurred in their tribute, even qualified, and
indeed "the English style" of the gentleman--perhaps by instant
contrast to the American--was what had had the arresting power. This
arresting power, at the same time--and that was the marvel--had already
sharpened almost to pain, for in the very act of judging the bared head
with detachment she felt herself shaken by a knowledge of it. It was
Merton Densher's own, and he was standing there, standing long enough
unconscious for her to fix him and then hesitate. These successions
were swift, so that she could still ask herself in freedom if she had
best let him see her. She could still reply to that that she shouldn't
like him to catch her in the effort to prevent this; and she might
further have decided that he was too preoccupied to see anything had
not a perception intervened that surpassed the first in violence. She
was unable to think afterwards how long she had looked at him before
knowing herself as otherwise looked at; all she was coherently to put
together was that she had had a second recognition without his having
noticed her. The source of this latter shock was nobody less than Kate
Croy--Kate Croy who was suddenly also in the line of vision and whose
eyes met her eyes at their next movement. Kate was but two yards
off--Mr. Densher wasn't alone. Kate's face specifically said so, for
after a stare as blank at first as Milly's it broke into a far smile.
That was what, wonderfully--in addition to the marvel of their
meeting--passed from her for Milly; the instant reduction to easy terms
of the fact of their being there, the two young women, together. It was
perhaps only afterwards that the girl fully felt the connection between
this touch and her already established conviction that Kate was a
prodigious person; yet on the spot she none the less, in a degree, knew
herself handled and again, as she had been the night before, dealt
with--absolutely even dealt with for her greater pleasure. A minute in
fine hadn't elapsed before Kate had somehow made her provisionally take
everything as natural. The provisional was just the charm--acquiring
that character from one moment to the other; it represented happily so
much that Kate would explain on the very first chance. This left
moreover--and that was the greatest wonder--all due margin for
amusement at the way things happened, the monstrous oddity of their
turning up in such a place on the very heels of their having separated
without allusion to it. The handsome girl was thus literally in control
of the scene by the time Merton Densher was ready to exclaim with a
high flush, or a vivid blush--one didn't distinguish the embarrassment
from the joy--"Why, Miss Theale: fancy!" and "Why, Miss Theale: what
luck!"
Miss Theale had meanwhile the sense that for him too, on Kate's part,
something wonderful and unspoken was determinant; and this although,
distinctly, his companion had no more looked at him with a hint than he
had looked at her with a question. He had looked and he was looking
only at Milly herself, ever so pleasantly and considerately--she scarce
knew what to call it; but without prejudice to her consciousness, all
the same, that women got out of predicaments better than men. The
predicament of course wasn't definite or phraseable--and the way they
let all phrasing pass was presently to recur to our young woman as a
characteristic triumph of the civilised state; but she took it for
granted, insistently, with a small private flare of passion, because
the one thing she could think of to do for him was to show him how she
eased him off. She would really, tired and nervous, have been much
disconcerted, were it not that the opportunity in question had saved
her. It was what had saved her most, what had made her, after the first
few seconds, almost as brave for Kate as Kate was for her, had made her
only ask herself what their friend would like of her. That he was at
the end of three minutes, without the least complicated reference, so
smoothly "their" friend was just the effect of their all being
sublimely civilised. The flash in which he saw this was, for Milly,
fairly inspiring--to that degree in fact that she was even now, on such
a plane, yearning to be supreme. It took, no doubt, a big dose of
inspiration to treat as not funny--or at least as not unpleasant--the
anomaly, for Kate, that she knew their gentleman, and for herself,
that Kate was spending the morning with him; but everything continued
to make for this after Milly had tasted of her draught. She was to
wonder in subsequent reflection what in the world they had actually
said, since they had made such a success of what they didn't say; the
sweetness of the draught for the time, at any rate, was to feel success
assured. What depended on this for Mr. Densher was all obscurity to
her, and she perhaps but invented the image of his need as a short cut
to service. Whatever were the facts, their perfect manners, all round,
saw them through. The finest part of Milly's own inspiration, it may
further be mentioned, was the quick perception that what would be of
most service was, so to speak, her own native wood-note. She had long
been conscious with shame for her thin blood, or at least for her poor
economy, of her unused margin as an American girl--closely indeed as,
in English air, the text might appear to cover the page. She still had
reserves of spontaneity, if not of comicality; so that all this cash in
hand could now find employment. She became as spontaneous as possible
and as American as it might conveniently appeal to Mr. Densher, after
his travels, to find her. She said things in the air, and yet flattered
herself that she struck him as saying them not in the tone of agitation
but in the tone of New York. In the tone of New York agitation was
beautifully discounted, and she had now a sufficient view of how much
it might accordingly help her.
The help was fairly rendered before they left the place; when her
friends presently accepted her invitation to adjourn with her to
luncheon at her hotel, it was in the Fifth Avenue that the meal might
have waited. Kate had never been there so straight, but Milly was at
present taking her; and if Mr. Densher had been he had at least never
had to come so fast. She proposed it as the natural thing--proposed it
as the American girl; and she saw herself quickly justified by the pace
at which she was followed. The beauty of the case was that to do it all
she had only to appear to take Kate's hint. This had said, in its fine
first smile, "Oh yes, our look is queer--but give me time;" and the
American girl could give time as nobody else could. What Milly thus
gave she therefore made them take--even if, as they might surmise, it
was rather more than they wanted. In the porch of the museum she
expressed her preference for a four-wheeler; they would take their
course in that guise precisely to multiply the minutes. She was more
than ever justified by the positive charm that her spirit imparted even
to their use of this conveyance; and she touched her highest
point--that is, certainly, for herself--as she ushered her companions
into the presence of Susie. Susie was there with luncheon, with her
return, in prospect; and nothing could now have filled her own
consciousness more to the brim than to see this good friend take in how
little she was abjectly anxious. The cup itself actually offered to
this good friend might in truth well be startling, for it was composed
beyond question of ingredients oddly mixed. She caught Susie fairly
looking at her as if to know whether she had brought in guests to hear
Sir Luke Strett's report. Well, it was better her companion should have
too much than too little to wonder about; she had come out "anyway," as
they said at home, for the interest of the thing; and interest truly
sat in her eyes. Milly was none the less, at the sharpest crisis, a
little sorry for her; she could of necessity extract from the odd scene
so comparatively little of a soothing secret. She saw Mr. Densher
suddenly popping up, but she saw nothing else that had happened. She
saw in the same way her young friend indifferent to her young friend's
doom, and she lacked what would explain it. The only thing to keep her
in patience was the way, after luncheon, Kate almost, as might be said,
made up to her. This was actually perhaps as well what most kept Milly
herself in patience. It had in fact for our young woman a positive
beauty--was so marked as a deviation from the handsome girl's previous
courses. Susie had been a bore to the handsome girl, and the change was
now suggestive. The two sat together, after they had risen from table,
in the apartment in which they had lunched, making it thus easy for the
other guest and his entertainer to sit in the room adjacent. This, for
the latter personage, was the beauty; it was almost, on Kate's part,
like a prayer to be relieved. If she honestly liked better to be
"thrown with" Susan Shepherd than with their other friend, why that
said practically everything. It didn't perhaps altogether say why she
had gone out with him for the morning, but it said, as one thought,
about as much as she could say to his face.
