her forehead. What a pretty child she was!
"Monsieur St. Armand?" inquiringly.
"He was here in the summer. He has gone to Paris. And he wanted me to
study. It is hard and sometimes foolishness, but then people are so much
nicer who know a great many things."
"Oh," he said thoughtfully, "you live with an Indian woman up by the
barracks? It is Monsieur Loisel's protégée?" and he gave her an
inquiring look.
"Monsieur, I would like to know what a protégée is," with a puzzled
look.
"Some one, generally a child, in whom you take an interest."
She gave a thoughtful nod, then a quick joy flamed up in her face. She
was Monsieur St. Armand's protégée and she was very glad.
"You are a courageous child. I wish the boys were as brave. I hate
lying;" the man said after a pause.
"O M'sieu, there are a great many cowardly people--do you not think so?"
she returned naïvely.
He really smiled then, and gave several emphatic nods at her youthful
discrimination.
"And you think you will not run away any more?"
"No, Monsieur, because--it is wrong."
"Then we must excuse you."
"Thank you, Monsieur. I wanted you to know. Now I can feel light
hearted."
She made a pretty courtesy and half turned.
"If you did not mind I should like to hear something about your Monsieur
St. Armand, that is, if you are not in a hurry to get home to your
dinner."
"Oh, Pani will wait."
She told her story eagerly, and he saw the wish to please this friend
who had shown such an interest in her was a strong incentive. But she
had a desire for knowledge beside that. So many of the children were
stupid and hated study. He would watch over her and see that she
progressed. This, no doubt, was the friend M. Loisel had spoken of.
"You have been very good to me, M'sieu," she said with another courtesy
as she turned away.
Several days had elapsed before she saw Marie again, for Madame De Ber
rather discountenanced the intimacy now. She had not much opinion of the
school; the sisters and the priests could teach all that was necessary.
And Jeanne still ran about like a wild deer, while Marie was a woman.
On Sunday Antoine Beeson came to pay his respects to Madame, the mamma.
He surely could not be considered a young girl's ideal,--short, stout,
red-faced from exposure to wind and water and sun, his thick brown hair
rather long, though he had been clean shaven the evening before. He wore
his best deerskin breeches, his gray sort of blouse with a red belt, and
low, clumsy shoes with his father's buckles that had come from France,
and he was duly proud of them. His gay bordered handkerchief and his
necktie were new for the occasion.
Monsieur De Ber had satisfied himself that he would make a good
son-in-law.
"For you see there is the house all ready, and now the servant has no
head and is idle and wasteful. I cannot stand such work. I wish your
daughter was two or three years older, since I cannot go back myself,"
the admirer exclaimed rather regretfully.
"Marie will be fifteen in the spring. She has been well trained, being
the eldest girl, and Madame is a thrifty and excellent housekeeper. Then
we all mend of youth. You will have a strong, healthy woman to care for
you in your old age, instead of a decrepit body to be a burthen to you."
"That is well thought of, De Ber;" and the suitor gave a short chuckle.
There was wisdom in the idea.
Madame had sent Marie and Rose out to walk with the children. She knew
she should accept the suitor, for her husband had said:--
"It is quite a piece of luck, since there are five girls to marry off.
And there's many a one who would jump at the chance. Then we shall not
have to give Marie much dowry beside her setting out. It is not like
young people beginning from the very hearthstone."
She met the suitor with a friendly greeting as if he were an ordinary
visitor, and they talked of the impending changes in the town, the
coming of the Americans, the stir in business prospects, M. Beeson was
not much of a waster of words, and he came to the point presently.
"It will be hard to spare Marie," she said with an accent of regret.
"Being the eldest she has had a great deal of experience. She is like a
mother to the younger ones. She has not been spending her time in
fooling around idly and dancing and being out on the river, like so many
girls. Rose is not worth half of Marie, and I do not see how I shall
ever get the trifler trained to take Marie's place. But there need be no
immediate haste."
"O Madame, we can do our courting afterward. I can take Mam'selle out to
the booths Saturday night, and we can look at the dancing. There will be
all day Sunday when I am at liberty. But you see there is the house
going to wrack, the servant spending my money, and the discomfort. I
miss my sister so much. And I thought we would not make a long story.
Dear Madame, you must see the need."
"It is sad to be sure. But you see Marie being so young and kept rather
close, not having any admirers, it takes us suddenly. And the wedding
gear--"
"Mam'selle always looks tidy. But I suppose a girl wants some show at
the church and the maids. Well, one doesn't get married many times in
one's life. But I would like it to be by Christmas. It will be a little
dull with me no doubt, and toward spring it is all hurry and drive,
Antoine here and Antoine there. New boats and boats to be patched and
canoes and dugouts. Then the big ships are up for repairs. I have worked
moonlight nights, Madame. And Christmas is a pleasurable time."
"Yes, a pleasant time for a girl to remember. I was married at
Pentecost. And there was the great procession. Dear! dear! It is not
much over seventeen years ago and we have nine children."
"Pierre is a big lad, Madame, and a great help to his father. Children
are a pleasure and comfort in one's old age if they do well. And thine
are being well brought up. Marie is so good and steady. It is not wisdom
for a man like me to choose a flighty girl."
"Marie will make a good wife," returned Madame, confidently.
And so when Marie returned it was all settled and Antoine had been
invited to tea. Marie was in a desperate flutter. Of course there was
nothing for her to say and she would not have had the courage to say it
if there had been. But she could not help comparing him with Martin
Lavosse, and some of the young men who greeted her at church. If his
face were not quite so red, and his figure so clumsy! His hands, too,
were broad with stubby ends to the fingers. She looked at her own; they
were quite shapely, for youth has a way of throwing off the marks of
toil that are ready enough to come back in later life.
"Ma fille," said her mother when the lover had wished them all good
night, rather awkwardly, and her father had gone out to walk with him;
"ma fille, Monsieur Beeson has done us the honor to ask for thy hand.
He is a good, steady, well-to-do man with a nice home to take thee to.
He does not carouse nor spend his money foolishly, but will always stay
at home with thee, and make thee happy. Many a girl will envy thy lot.
He wants the wedding about Christmas time, so the betrothal will be
soon, in a week or so. Heaven bless and prosper thee, my child! A good
daughter will not make an ill wife. Thy father is very proud."
Rose and Marie looked unutterable things at each other when they went to
bed. There were little pitchers in the trundle-bed, and their parents in
the next room.
"If he were not so old!" whispered Rose.
"And if he could dance! But with that figure!"
"Like a buffalo!" Marie's protest forced its way up from her heart. "And
I have just begun to think of things that make one happy. There will be
dances at Christmastide."
"I wonder if one is sure to love one's husband," commented Rose.
"It would be wicked not to. But how does one begin? I am so afraid of
his loud voice."
"Girls, cease whispering and go to sleep. The night will be none too
long," called their mother.
Marie wiped some tears from her eyes. But it was a great comfort to her
when she was going to church the next Sunday and walking behind the
Bronelle girls to hear Hortense say:--
"I have my cap set for Tony Beeson. His sister has kept close watch of
him, but now he is free. I was down to the dock on Friday, and he was
very cordial and sent a boy over the river with me in a canoe and would
take no pay. Think of that! I shall make him walk home with me if I
can."
Marie De Ber flushed. Some one would be glad to have him. At first she
half wished he had chosen Hortense, then a bit of jealousy and a bit of
triumph surged through her slow pulses.
Antoine Beeson walked home on the side of M. De Ber. The children old
enough to go to church were ranged in a procession behind. Pierre
guarded his sisters. Jeanne was on the other side of the street with
Pani, but the distance was so small that she glanced across with
questioning eyes. Marie held her head up proudly.
"I do believe," began Jeanne when they had turned out of St Anne's
street, "that Marie De Ber is going to be betrothed to that rough boat
builder who walks beside her father."
"Antoine Beeson has a good record, and she will do well," returned Pani
briefly.
"But I think it would not be easy to love him," protested Jeanne.
"Child, you are too young to talk about love. It is the parents who
decide such matters."
"And I have none. You could not make me marry anyone, Pani. And I do not
like these common men."
"Heaven forbid! but I might advise."
"I am not going to marry, you know. After all, maybe when I get old I
will be a sister. It won't be hard to wear a black gown then. But I
shall wait until I am very old. Pani, did you ever dream of what might
happen to you?"
"The good God sends what is best for us, child."
"But--Monsieur Bellestre might come. And if he took me away then
Monsieur St. Armand might come. Pani, is Monsieur Bellestre as nice as
Monsieur St. Armand? I cannot seem to remember him."
"Little maids should not be thinking of men so often. Think of thy
prayers, Jeanne."
Sunday was a great time to walk on the parade ground, the young men
attired in their best, the demoiselles gay as butterflies with a mother
or married sister to guard them from too great familiarity. But there
was much decorous coquetting on both sides, for even at that period many
a young fellow was caught by a pair of smiling eyes.
Others went to walk in the woods outside the farms or sailing on the
river, since there was no Puritan strictness. They did their duty by the
morning mass and service, and the rest of the day was given over to
simple pleasure. There was a kind of half religious hilarity in the very
air.
And the autumn was so magnificently beautiful. The great hillsides with
their tracts of timber that looked as if they fenced in the world when
the sun dropped down behind them, but if one threaded one's way through
the dark aisles and came out on the other side there were wonderful
pictures,--small prairies or levels that suggested lakes and then a sort
of avenue stretching out until another was visible, undulating surfaces,
groves of pine, burr oak, and great stalwart hickories, then another
woody ridge, and so on and on through interminable tangles and over
rivers until Lake Michigan was reached. But not many of the habitans, or
even the English, for that matter, had traveled to the other side of the
state. The business journeys called them northward. There were Indian
settlements about that were not over friendly.
Jeanne liked the outside world better. She was not old enough for smiles
and smirks or an interest in fine clothes. So when she said, "Come,
Pani," the woman rose and followed.
"To the tree?" she asked as they halted a little.
"To the big woods," smilingly.
The cottages were many of them framed in with vines and high pickets,
and pear and apple orchards surrounded them, whose seed and, in some
instances, cuttings had been brought from France; roses, too, whose
ancestors had blossomed for kings and queens. Here and there was an oak
turned ruddy, a hickory hanging out slender yellow leaves, or a maple
flaunting a branch of wondrous scarlet. The people had learned to
protect and defend themselves from murderous Indian raids, or in this
vicinity the red men had proved more friendly.
Pierre De Ber came shambling along. He had grown rapidly and seemed
loose jointed, but he had a kindly, honest face where ignorance really
was simplicity.
"You fly over the ground, Jeanne!" he exclaimed out of breath. The day
was very warm for September. "Here I have been trying to catch up to
you--"
"Yes, Mam'selle, I am tired myself. Let us sit down somewhere and rest,"
said Pani.
"Just to this little hillock. Pani, it would make a hut with the
clearing inside and the soft mosses. If you drew the branches of the
trees together it would make thatching for the roof. One could live
here."
"O Mam'selle,--the Indians!" cried Pierre.
Jeanne laughed. "The Indians are going farther and farther away. Now,
Pani, sit down here. Then lean back against this tree. And now you may
take a good long rest. I am going to talk to the chipmunks and the
birds, and find flowers."
Pani drew up her knees, resting on her feet as a brace. The soft air had
made her sleepy as well, and she closed her eyes.
"It is so beautiful," sighed Jeanne. "Something rises within me and I
want to fly. I want to know what strange lands there are beyond the
clouds. And over there, far, farther than one can think, is a big ocean
no one has ever seen. It is on the map. And this way," inclining her
head eastward, "is another. That is where you go to France."
"But I shall never go to France," said the literal youth. "I want to go
up to Michilimackinac, and there is the great Lake Huron. That is
enough for me. If the ocean is any bigger I do not want to see it."
"It is, oh, miles and hundreds of miles bigger! And it takes more than a
month to go. The master showed me on a map."
"Well, I don't care for that," pulling the leaves off a branch he had
used for a switch.
The rough, rugged, and sometimes cross face of the master was better,
because his eyes had a wonderful light in them. What made people so
different? Apples and pears and ears of corn generally grew one like the
other. And pigs--she smiled to herself. And the few sheep she had seen.
But people could think. What gave one the thinking power? In the brain
the master said. Did every one have brains?
"Jeanne, I have something wonderful to tell you."
"Oh, I think I know it! Marie has a lover."
He looked disappointed. "Who told you?"
"No one really told me. I saw Monsieur Beeson walking home with your
father. And Marie was afraid--"
"Afraid!" the boy gave a derisive laugh. "Well, she is no longer afraid.
They are going to be betrothed on Michaelmas eve. Tony is a good
fellow."
"Then if Marie is--satisfied--"
"Why shouldn't she be satisfied? Father says it is a great chance, for
you see she can really have no dowry, there are so many of us. We must
all wait for our share until father has gone."
"Gone? Where?" She looked up in surprise.
"Why, when he is dead. Everybody has to die, you know. And then the
money they leave is divided."
Jeanne nodded. It shocked her in a vague sort of fashion, and she was
glad Pani had no money.
"And Tony Beeson has a good house and a good business. I like him," the
boy said, doggedly.
"Yes," assentingly. "But Marie is to marry him."
"Oh, the idea!" Pierre laughed immoderately. "Why a man always marries a
woman."
"But your liking wouldn't help Marie."
"Oh, Marie is all right. She will like him fast enough. And it will be
gay to have a wedding. That is to be about Christmas."
Jeanne was looking down the little slant to the cottages and the
wigwams, and speculating upon the queerness of marriage.
"I wish I had made as much fortune as Tony Beeson. But then I'm only a
little past sixteen, and in five years I shall be twenty-one. Then I am
going to have a wife and house of my own."
"O Pierre!" Jeanne broke into a soft laugh.
"Yes, Jeanne--" turning very red.
The girl was looking at him in a mirthful fashion and it rather
disconcerted him.
"You won't mind waiting, Jeanne--"
"I shan't mind waiting, but if you mean--" her cheeks turned a deeper
scarlet and she made a little pause--"if you mean marrying I should mind
that a good deal;" in a decisive tone.
"But not to marry me? You have known me always."
"I should mind marrying anyone. I shouldn't want to sweep the house, and
cook the meals, and wash, and tend babies. I want to go and come as I
like. I hated school at first, but now I like learning and I must crack
the shell to get at the kernel, so you see that is why I make myself
agree with it."
"You cannot go to school always. And while you are there I shall be up
to the Mich making some money."
"Oh," with a vexed crease in her forehead, "I told you once before not
to talk of this--the day we were all out in the boat, you remember. And
if you go on I shall hate you; yes, I shall."
"I shall go on," said the persistent fellow. "Not very often, perhaps,
but I thought if you were one of the maids at Marie's wedding and I
could wait on you--"
"I shall not be one of the maids." She rose and stamped her foot on the
ground. "Your mother does not like me any more. She never asks me to
come in to tea. She thinks the school wicked. And you must marry to
please her, as Marie is doing. So it will not be me;" she declared with
emphasis.
"Oh, I know. That Louis Marsac will come back and you will marry him."
The boy's eyes flamed with jealousy and his whole face gloomed over with
cruelty. "And then I shall kill him. I couldn't stand it," he
continued.
"I hate Louis Marsac! I hate you, Pierre De Ber!" she cried vehemently.
The boy fell at her feet and kissed the hem of her frock, for she
snatched away her hands.
"No, don't hate me. I'm glad to have you hate him."
"Get up, or I shall kick you," she said viciously.
"O Jeanne, don't be angry! I'll wait and wait. I thought you had
forgotten, or changed somehow. You have been so pleasant. And you smiled
so at me this morning. I know you have liked me--"
"If ever you say another word--" raising her hand.
"I won't unless you let me. You see you are not grown up yet, but
sometimes people are betrothed when they are little children--"
She put her fingers in her ears and spun round and round, going down the
little decline. Then she remembered Pani, who had fallen asleep. She
motioned to Pierre.
"Go home," she commanded as he came toward her. "And if you ever talk
about this to me again I shall tell your father. I am not for anybody. I
shall not mind if I am one of St. Catherine's maids."
"Jeanne--"
"Go!" She made an imperative motion with her hand.
He walked slowly away. She started like a mad thing and ran through the
woods at the top of her speed until her anger had vanished.
"Poor Pierre," she said. "This talk of marriage has set him crazy. But
I could never like him, and Madame Mère just hates me."
She went slowly back to Pani and sat down by her side. How tired she
looked!
"And I dragged her way up here," she thought remorsefully. "I'm glad she
didn't wake up."
So she sat there patiently and let the woman finish her nap. But her
beautiful thoughts were gone and her mind was shadowed by something
grave and strange that she shrank from. Then Pani stirred.
"O child, I've been sleeping stupidly and you have not gathered a
flower--" looking at the empty hands. "Have you been here all the time?"
"No matter. Pani, am I a tyrant dragging you everywhere?" Her voice was
touching with regret.
"No, cherie. But sometimes I feel old. I've lived a great many years."
"How many?"
"Oh, I cannot count them up. But I am rested now. Shall we walk about a
little and get my knees limber? Where is Pierre?"
"He went home. Pani, it is true Marie is to be betrothed to M'sieu
Beeson, and married at Christmastide."
"And if the sign holds good Madame De Ber will be fortunate in marrying
off her girls, for, if the first hangs on, it is bad for the rest. Rose
will be much prettier, and no doubt have lovers in plenty. But it is not
always the prettiest that make the best wives. Marie is sensible. They
will have a grand time."
"And I shall not be counted in," the child said proudly.
"Jeanne, little one--" in surprise.
"Madame does not like me because I go to the heretic school. And--I do
not sew nor spin, nor sweep the house--"
"There is no need," interrupted Pani.
"No, since I do not mean to have a husband."
And yet--how amusing it was--a boy and a man were ready to quarrel over
her. Did ever any little girl have two lovers?
"Ah, little one, smile over it now, but thou wilt change presently when
the right bird whistles through the forest."
"I will not come for any man's whistle."
"That is only a saying, dear."
They walked down the hill. Cheerful greetings met them and Pani was
loaded with fruit. At the hut of Wenonah, the mistress insisted upon
their coming in to supper and Jeanne consented for them both. For,
although the bell rang, the gates were no longer closed at six.
Marie De Ber made several efforts to see her friend, but her mother's
watchful eye nipped them in the bud. One Friday afternoon they met.
Wednesday following was to be the betrothal.
"I wanted to explain--" Marie flushed and hesitated. "There have been
many guests asked, and they are mostly older people--"
"Yes, I know. I am only a child, and your mother does not approve. Then
I go to the heretic school."
"She thinks the school a bad thing. And about the maids--"
"I could not be one of them," Jeanne said stiffly.
"Mother has chosen them, I had no say. She manages everything. When I
have my own home I shall do as I like and invite whom I choose. Mother
thinks I do not know anything and have no mind, but, Jeanne, I love you,
and I am not afraid of what you learn at school. Monsieur Beeson said it
was a good thing. And you will not be angry with me?"
"No, no, Marie." The child's heart was touched.
"We will be friends afterward. I shall tell M'sieu Beeson how long we
have cared for each other."
"You--like him?" hesitatingly.
"He is very kind. And girls cannot choose. I wish he were younger, but
it will be gay at Christmastide, and my own home will be much to me.
Yes, we will wait until then. Jeanne, kiss me for good luck. You are
quite sure you are not angry?"
"Oh, very sure."
The two girls kissed each other and Jeanne cried, "Good luck! good
luck!" But all the same she felt Marie was going out of her life and it
would leave a curious vacancy.
CHAPTER VIII.
A TOUCH OF FRIENDSHIP.
How softly the bells rang out for the service of St. Michael and All
Angels! The river flowing so tranquilly seemed to carry on the melody
and then bring back a faint echo. It was a great holiday with the
French. The early mass was thronged, somehow the virtue seemed greater
if one went to that. Then there was a procession that marched to the
little chapels outside, which were hardly more than shrines.
Pani went out early and alone. And though the good priest had said to
her, "The child is old enough and should be confirmed," since M.
Bellestre had some objections and insisted that Jeanne should not be
hurried into any sacred promises, and the child herself seemed to have
no desire, they waited.
"But you peril the salvation of her soul. Since she has been baptized
she should be confirmed," said Father Rameau. "She is a child of the
Church. And if she should die!"
"She will not die," said Pani with a strange confidence, "and she is to
decide for herself."
"What can a child know!"
"Then if she cannot know she must be blameless. Monsieur Bellestre was a
very good man. And, M'sieu, some who come to mass, to their shame be it
said, cheat their neighbors and get drunk, and tempt others to drink."
"Most true, but that doesn't lessen our duty."
M. Bellestre had not come yet. This time a long illness had intervened.
Jeanne went out in the procession and sang in the hymns and the rosary.
And she heard about the betrothal. The house had been crowded with
guests and Marie had on a white frock and a beautiful sash, and her hair
was curled.
In spite of her protests Jeanne did feel deeply hurt that she should be
left out. Marie had made a timid plea for her friend.
"We cannot ask all the children in the town," said her mother
emphatically. "And no one knows whether she has any real position. She
is a foundling, and no company for you."
Pani went down the river with her in the afternoon. She was gayety
itself, singing little songs and laughing over everything so that she
quite misled her nurse into thinking that she really did not care. Then
she made Pani tell some old legends of the spirits who haunted the lakes
and rivers, and she added to them some she had heard Wenonah relate.
"I should like to live down in some depths, one of the beautiful caves
where there are gems and all lovely things," said the child.
"As if there were not lovely things in the forests. There are no birds
in the waters. And fishes are not as bright and merry as squirrels."
"That is true enough. I'll stay on the earth a little while longer,"
laughingly. "But look at the lovely colors. O Pani, how many beautiful
things there are! And yet Berthê Campeau is going to Quebec to become a
nun and be shut out of it. How can you praise God for things you do not
see and cannot enjoy? And is it such a good thing to suffer? Does God
rejoice in the pain that he doesn't send and that you take upon
yourself? Her poor mother will die and she will not be here to comfort
her."
Pani shook her head. The child had queer thoughts.
"Pani, we must go and see Madame Campeau afterward. She will be very
lonely. You would not be happy if I went away?"
"O child!" with a quick cry.
"So I am not going. If Monsieur Bellestre wants me he will take you,
too."
Pani nodded.
They noted as they went down that a tree growing imprudently near the
water's edge had fallen in. There was a little bend in the river, and it
really was dangerous. So coming back they gave it a sensibly wide berth.
A canoe with a young man in it came flying up. The sun had gone down and
there were purple shadows about like troops of spirits.
"Monsieur," the child cried, "do not hug the shore so much. There is
danger."
A gay laugh came back to them and he flashed on, his paddle poised at a
most graceful angle.
"O Monsieur!" with eager warning.
The paddle caught. The dainty canoe turned over and floated out of reach
with a slight gust of wind.
"Monsieur"--Jeanne came nearer--"it was a fallen tree. It was so dusk I
knew you could not see it."
He was swimming toward them. "I wonder if you can help me recover my
boat."
"Monsieur, swim in to the shore and I will bring the canoe there." She
was afraid to risk taking him in hers. "Just down below to escape the
tree."
"Oh, thank you. Yes, that will be best."
His strokes were fine and strong even if he was encumbered by his
clothing. Jeanne propelled her canoe along and drove the other in to
shore, then caught it with a rope. He emerged from his bath and shook
himself.
"You have been very kind. I should have heeded your warning or asked you
what it meant. And now--I have lost my paddle."
"I have an extra one, Monsieur."
"You are a godsend certainly. Lend it to me."
He waded out, rescued his canoe and leaped adroitly into it. She was
interested in the ease and grace.
"That tree is a dangerous thing," he exclaimed.
"They will remove it, Monsieur. It must have recently fallen in. The
tide has washed the ground away."
"It was quite a mishap, but owing to your quick thought I am not much
the worse;" and he laughed. "I do not mind a wetting. As for the lost
paddle that will break no one's heart. But I shall remember you with
gratitude. May I ask your name?"
"It is Jeanne Angelot," she said simply.
"Oh, then I ought to know you--do know you a little. My father is the
Sieur St. Armand."
"Oh!" Jeanne gave a little cry of delight.
"And I have a message for you. I was coming to find you to-morrow."
"Monsieur may take cold in his wet clothes, Jeanne. We ought to go a
little faster," said Pani. "The air is getting chilly here on the
river."
"If you do not mind I will hasten on. And to-morrow I shall be glad to
come and thank you again and deliver my message."
"Adieu," responded Jeanne, with a delicious gayety.
He was off like a bird and soon out of sight. Jeanne drew her canoe up
to a quiet part of the town, below the gate. The day was ending, as
holidays often did, in a sort of carouse. Men were playing on fiddles,
crowds of men and boys were dancing. By some flaring light others were
playing cards or dominoes. The two threaded their way quickly along,
Jeanne with her head and face nearly hidden by the big kerchief that was
like a shawl.
"How queer it was, Pani!" and she laughed. Her eyes were like stars in
their pleasure. "And to think Monsieur St. Armand has sent me a message!
Do you suppose he is in France? I asked the master to show me France--he
has a map of these strange countries."
"A map!" gasped Pani, as if it were an evil spirit.
"Why, it is like a picture with lines all about it. This is France. This
is Spain. And England, where the English come from. I should think they
would--it is such a little place. Ever so many other countries as well.
But after all I don't understand about their going round--"
"Come and have some supper."
"We should have seen him anyhow if he had not fallen into the river. And
it was funny! If he had heeded what I said--it was lucky we saw the tree
as we went down."
"He will give due notice of it, no doubt. The water is so clear that it
can easily be seen in the daytime. Otherwise I should feel troubled."
Jeanne nodded with gay affirmation. She was in exuberant spirits, and
could hardly eat.
Then they sat out in the doorway, shaded somewhat by the clinging vines.
From below there was a sound of music. Up at the Fort the band was
playing. There was no moon, but the stars were bright and glittering in
strange tints. Now and then a party rather merry with wine and whisky
trolled out a noisy stave that had been imported from the mother country
years ago about Jacques and his loves and his good wine.
Presently the great bell clanged out. That was a signal for booths to
shut, for deerhide curtains to be drawn. Some obstreperous soldiers were
marched to the guardhouse. Some drunken revelers crept into a nook
beside a storage box or hid in a tangle of vines to sleep until
morning.
But in many of the better class houses merriment and gayety went on
while the outside decorousness was observed. There was a certain respect
paid to law and the new rulers were not so arbitrary as the English had
been. Also French prejudices were wearing slowly away while the real
characteristics of the race remained.
"I shall not go to school to-day," said Jeanne the next morning. "I will
tell the master how it was, and he will pardon me. And I will get two
lessons to-morrow, so the children will see that he does not favor me. I
think they are sometimes jealous."
She laughed brightly and went dancing about singing whatever sounds
entered her mind. Now it was a call of birds, then a sharp high cry,
anon a merry whistle that one might fancy came from the woods. She ran
out and in, she looked up and down the narrow street with its crooks
that had never been smoothed out, and with some houses standing in the
very road as it were. Everything was crowded in the business part.
Rose De Ber spied her out and came running up to greet her; tossing her
head consequentially.
"We had a gay time last night. I wish you could have peeped in the
windows. But you know it was not for children, only grown people. Martin
Lavosse danced ever so many times with me, but he moaned about Marie,
and I said, 'By the time thou art old enough to marry she will have a
houseful of babies, perhaps she will give you her first daughter,' and
he replied, 'I shall not wait that length of time. There are still good
fish in the lakes and rivers, but I am sorry to see her wed before she
has had a taste of true life and pleasure.' And, Jeanne, I have resolved
that mother shall not marry me off to the first comer."
Jeanne nodded approval.
"I do not see what has come over Pierre," she went on. "He was grumpy as
a wounded bear last night and only a day or two ago he made such a
mistake in reckoning that father beat him. And Monsieur Beeson and
mother nearly quarreled over the kind of learning girls should have. He
said every one should know how to read and write and figure a little so
that she could overlook her husband's affairs if he should be ill. Marie
is going to learn to read afterward, and she is greatly pleased."
It was true that ignorance prevailed largely among the common people.
The children were taught prayers and parts of the service and catechism
orally, since that was all that concerned their souls' salvation, and it
kept a wider distinction between the classes. But the jolly, merry
Frenchman, used to the tradition of royalty, cared little. His place was
at the end of the line and he enjoyed the freedom. He would not have
exchanged his rough, comfortable dress for all the satin waistcoats,
velvet small clothes and lace ruffles in the world. Like the Indian he
had come to love his liberty and the absence of troublesome
restrictions.
But the English had brought in new methods, although education with them
was only for the few. The colonist from New England made this a
specialty. As soon as possible in a new settlement schools were
established, but there were other restrictions before them and learning
of most kinds had to fight its way.
Jeanne saw her visitor coming up the street just as her patience was
almost exhausted. She was struck with a sudden awe at the sight of the
well dressed young man.
"Did you think I would not keep my word?" he asked gayly.
"But your father did," she answered gravely.
"Ah, I am afraid I shall never make so fine a man. I have seen no one
like him, Mam'selle, though there are many courageous and honorable men
in the world. But you know I have not met everybody," laughing and
showing white, even teeth between the red lips. "Good day!" to Pani, who
invited him in into the room where she had set a chair for him.
"I want to ask your pardon for my rudeness yesterday," bowing to the
child and the woman. "Perhaps my handling of the canoe did not impress
you with the idea of superior knowledge, but I have been used to it from
boyhood, and have shot rapids, been caught in gales, oh, almost
everything!"
"It was not that, Monsieur. We had seen the tree with its branches like
so many clinging arms, and it was getting purple and dun as you came up,
so we thought it best to warn."
"And I obstinately ran right into danger, which shows how much good
advice is thrown away. You see the paddle caught and over I went. But
the first thing this morning some boatmen went down and removed it.
However, I did not mind the wetting. It was not the first time."
"And Monsieur did not take cold? The nights are chilly now along the
river's edge. The sun slips down suddenly," was Pani's anxious comment.
"Oh, no. I am inured to such things. I have been a traveler, too. It was
a gay day yesterday, Mam'selle."
"Yes," answered Jeanne. Yet she had felt strangely solitary. "Your
father, Monsieur, is in France. I have been learning about that
country."
"Oh, no, not yet. There was some business in Washington. To-morrow I
leave Detroit to rejoin him in New York, from which place we set sail,
though the journey is a somewhat dangerous one now, what with pirate
ships and England claiming a right of search. But we shall trust a good
Providence."
"You go also," she said with a touch of disappointment. It gave a
bewitching gravity to her countenance.
"Oh, yes. My father and I are never long apart. We are very fond of each
other."
"And your mother--" she asked hesitatingly.
"I do not remember her, for I was an infant when she died. But my father
keeps her in mind always. And I must give you his message."
He took out a beautifully embossed leathern case with silver mountings
and ran over the letters.
"Ah--here. 'I want you to see my little friend, Jeanne Angelot, and
report her progress to me. I hope the school has not frightened her.
Tell her there are little girls in other cities and towns who are
learning many wonderful things and will some day grow up into charming
women such as men like for companions. It will be hard and tiresome, but
she must persevere and learn to write so that she can send me a letter,
which I shall prize very highly. Give her my blessing and say she must
become a true American and honor the country of which we are all going
to feel very proud in years to come. But with all this she must never
outgrow her love for her foster mother, to whom I send respect, nor her
faith in the good God who watches over and will keep her from all harm
if she puts her trust in him.'"
Jeanne gave a long sigh. "O Monsieur, it is wonderful that people can
talk this way on paper. I have tried, but the master could not help
laughing and I laughed, too. It was like a snail crawling about and the
pen would go twenty ways as if there was an evil sprite in my fingers.
But I shall keep on although it is very tiresome and I have such a
longing to be out in the fields and woods, chasing squirrels and singing
to the birds, which sometimes light on my shoulder. And I know a good
many English words, but the reading looks so funny, as if there were no
sense to it!"
"But there is a great deal. You will be very glad some day. Then I may
take a good account to him and tell him you are trying to obey his
wishes?"
"Yes, Monsieur, I shall be very glad to. And he will write me the letter
that he promised?"
"Indeed he will. He always keeps his promises. And I shall tell him you
are happy and glad as a bird soaring through the air?"
"Not always glad. Sometimes a big shadow falls over me and my breath
throbs in my throat. I cannot tell what makes the strange feeling. It
does not come often, and perhaps when I have learned more it will
vanish, for then I can read books and have something for my thoughts.
But I am glad a good deal of the time."
"I don't wonder my father was interested in her," Laurent St. Armand
thought. He studied the beautiful eyes with their frank innocence, the
dainty mouth and chin, the proud, uplifted expression that indicated
nobleness and no self-consciousness.
"And now I must bid thee good-by with my own and my father's blessing.
We shall return to America and find you again. You will hardly go away
from Detroit?"
She was quite ready at that moment to give up M. Bellestre's plans for
her future.
He took her hand. Then he pressed his lips upon it with the grave
courtesy of a gentleman.
"Adieu," he said softly. "Pani, watch well over her."
The woman bowed her head with a deeper feeling than mere assent.
Jeanne sat down on the doorstep, leaning her elbow on her knee and her
chin in her hand. Grave thoughts were stirring within her, the
awakening of a new life on the side she had seen, but never known. The
beautiful young women quite different from the gay, chattering
demoiselles, their proudly held heads, their dignity, their soft voices,
their air of elegance and refinement, all this Jeanne Angelot felt but
could not have put into words, not even into thought. And this young man
was over on that side. Oh, all Detroit must lie between, from the river
out to the farms! Could she ever cross the great gulf? What was it made
the difference--education? Then she would study more assiduously than
ever. Was this why Monsieur St. Armand was so earnest about her trying?
She glanced down at her little brown hand. Oh, how soft and warm his
lips had been, what a gentle touch! She pressed her own lips to it, and
a delicious sensation sped through her small body.
"What art thou dreaming about, Jeanne? Come to thy dinner."
She glanced up with a smile. In a vague way she had known before there
were many things Pani could not understand; now she felt the keen,
far-reaching difference between them, between her and the De Bers, and
Louis Marsac, and all the people she had ever known. But her mother, who
could tell most about her, was dead.
It was not possible for a glad young thing to keep in a strained mood
that would have no answering comprehension, and Jeanne's love of nature
was so overwhelming. Then the autumn at the West was so glowing, so
full of richness that it stirred her immeasurably. She could hardly
endure the confinement on some days.
"What makes you so restless?" asked the master one noon when he was
dismissing some scholars kept in until their slow wits had mastered
their tasks. She, too, had been inattentive and willful.
"I am part of the woods to-day, a chipmunk running about, a cricket
which dares not chirp," and she glanced up into the stern eyes with a
merry light, "a grasshopper who takes long strides, a bee who goes
buzzing, a glad, gay bird who says to his mate, 'Come, let us go to the
unknown land and spend a winter in idleness, with no nest to build, no
hungry, crying babies to feed, nothing but just to swing in the trees
and laugh with the sunshine.'"
"Thou art a queer child. Come, say thy lesson well and we will spend the
whole afternoon in the woods. Thou shalt consort with thy brethren the
birds, for thou art brimming over."
The others were dismissed with some added punishment. The master took
out his luncheon. He was not overpaid, he had no family and lived by
himself, sleeping in the loft over the school.
"Oh, come home with me!" the child cried. "Pani's cakes of maize are so
good, and no one cooks fish with such a taste and smell. It would make
one rise in the middle of the night."
"Will the tall Indian woman give me a welcome?"
"Oh, Pani likes whomever I like;" with gay assurance.
"And dost thou like me, child?"
"Yes, yes." She caught his hand in both of hers. "Sometimes you are
cross and make ugly frowns, and often I pity the poor children you beat,
but I know, too, they deserve it. And you speak so sharp! I used to jump
when I heard it, but now I only give a little start, and sometimes just
smile within, lest the children should see it and be worse. It is a
queer little laugh that runs down inside of one. Come, Pani will be
waiting."
She took his hand as they picked their way through the narrow streets,
having to turn out now and then for a loaded wheelbarrow, or two men
carrying a big plank on their shoulders, or a heavy burthen, one at each
end. For there were some streets not even a wagon and two horses could
get through.
To the master's surprise Pani did not even seem put out as Jeanne
explained the waiting. Had fish toasted before the coals ever tasted so
good? The sagamite he had learned to tolerate, but the maize cakes were
so excellent it seemed as if he could never get enough of them.
The golden October sun lay warm everywhere and was tinting the hills and
forests with richness that glowed and glinted as if full of life. Afar,
one could see the shine of the river, the distant lake, the undulations
where the tall trees did not cut it off. Crows were chattering and
scolding. A great flock of wild geese passed over with their hoarse,
mysterious cry, and shaped like two immense wings each side of their
leader.
"Now you shall tell me about the other countries where you have been,"
and Jeanne dropped on the soft turf, motioning him to be seated.
In all his journeying through the eastern part of the now United
Colonies, he thought he had never seen a fairer sight than this. It
warmed and cheered his old heart. And sure he had never had a more
enraptured listener.
But in a brief while the glory of wood and field was gone. The shriveled
leaves were blown from the trees by the fierce gusts. The beeches stood
like bare, trembling ghosts, the pines and firs with their rough dark
tops were like great Indian wigwams and were enough to terrify the
beholder. Sharp, shrill cries at night of fox and wolf, the rustle of
the deer and the slow, clumsy tread of the bear, the parties of Indians
drawing nearer civilization, braves who had roamed all summer in
idleness returning to patient squaws, told of the approach of winter.
New pickets were set about barns and houses, and coverings of skin made
added warmth. The small flocks were carefully sheltered from marauding
Indians. Doors and windows were hung with curtains of deer skins, floors
were covered with buffalo or bear hide, and winter garments were brought
out. Even inside the palisade one could see a great change in apparel
and adornment. The booths were no longer invitingly open, but here and
there were inns and places of evening resort where the air was not only
enough to stifle one, but so blue with smoke you could hardly see your
neighbor's face. No merry parties sang songs upon the river nor went up
to the lake in picnic fashion.
Still there was no lack of hearty good cheer. On the farms one and
another gave a dance to celebrate some special occasion. There was
husking corn and shelling it, there were meats and fish to be salted,
some of it dried, for now the inhabitants within and without knew that
winter was long and cold.
They had sincerely mourned General Wayne. A new commandant had been
sent, but the general government was poor and deeply in debt and there
were many vexed questions to settle. So old Detroit changed very little
under the new régime. There was some delightful social life around the
older or, rather, more aristocratic part of the town, where several
titled English people still remained. Fortnightly balls were given,
dinners, small social dances, for in that time dancing was the amusement
of the young as card playing was of the older ones.
Then came days of whirling, blinding snow when one could hardly stir
out, succeeded by sunshine of such brilliance that Detroit seemed a
dazzle of gems. Parties had merry games of snowballing, there were
sledging, swift traveling on skates and snowshoes, and if the days were
short the long evenings were full of good cheer, though many a gruesome
story was told of Pontiac's time, and the many evil times before that,
and of the heroic explorers and the brave fathers who had gone to plant
the cross and the lilies of France in the wilderness.
Jeanne wondered that she should care so little for the defection of the
De Bers. Pierre passed her with a sullen nod when he met her face to
face and sometimes did not notice her at all. Marie was very important
when she recovered from the surprise that a man should want to marry
her, and that she should be the first of Delisse Graumont's maids to
marry, she who was the youngest of them all.
"I had a beau in my cup at the tea drinking, and he was holding out his
hand, which was a sign that he would come soon. And, Rose, I mean to
have a tea drinking. I hope you will get the beau."
"I am in no hurry," and Rose tossed her pretty head.
Marie and her mother went down to the Beeson house to see what
plenishings were needed. It was below the inclosure, quite a farm, in
the new part running down to the river, where there was a dock and a
rough sort of basin, quite a boat yard, for Antoine Beeson had not yet
aspired to anything very grand in ship building. They pulled out the
great fur rugs and hangings and put the one up and the other down, and
Antoine coming in was so delighted with the homelikeness that he caught
his betrothed about the waist and whirled her round and round.
"Really, I think some day I shall learn to dance," and he gave his
broad, hearty laugh that Marie had grown quite accustomed to.
Madame De Ber looked amazed and severe.
CHAPTER IX.
CHRISTMAS AND A CONFESSION.
Ah, how the bells rang out on Christmas morning! A soft, muffled sound
coming through the roofs of white snow that looked like peaked army
tents, the old Latin melody that had rejoiced many a heart and carried
the good news round the world.
It was still dark when Jeanne heard Pani stirring, and she sprang out of
bed.
"I am going to church with you, Pani," she declared in a tone that left
no demur.
"Ah, child, if thou hadst listened to the good father and been
confirmed, then thou mightst have partaken of the mass."
Jeanne almost wished she had. But the schoolmaster had strengthened her
opposition, or rather her dread, a little, quite unknowingly, and yet he
had given her more reverence and a longing for real faith.
"But I shall be thinking of the shepherds and the glad tidings. I
watched the stars last night, they were so beautiful. 'And they came and
stood over the place,' the schoolmaster read it to me. That was way over
the other side of the world, Pani."
The Indian woman shook her head. She was afraid of this strange
knowledge, and she had a vague idea that it must have happened here in
Detroit, since the Christ was born anew every year.
The stars were not all gone out of the sky. The crisp snow crunched
under their feet, although the moccasins were soft and warm; and
everybody was muffled in furs, even to hoods and pointed caps. Some
people were carrying lanterns, but they could find their way, straight
along St. Anne's street. The bell kept on until they stood in the church
porch.
"Thou wilt sit here, child."
Jeanne made no protest. She rather liked being hidden here in the
darkness.
There were the De Bers, then Marie and her lover, then Rose and Pierre.
How much did dull Pierre believe and understand? The master's faith
seemed simpler to her.
A little later was the regular Christmas service with the altar decked
in white and gold and the two fathers in their beautiful robes of
rejoicing, the candlesticks that had been sent from France a century
before, burnished to their brightest and the candles lighted. Behind the
screen the sisters and the children sang hymns, and some in the
congregation joined, though the men were much more at home in the music
of the violins and in the jollity.
Jeanne felt strangely serious, and half wished she was among the
children. It was the fear of having to become a nun that deterred her.
She could not understand how Berthê Campeau could leave her ailing
mother and go to Montreal for religion's sake. Madame Campeau was not
able to stand the journey even if she had wanted to go, but she and her
sister had had some differences, and, since Berthê would go, her son's
wife had kindly offered to care for her.
"And what there is left thou shalt have, Catherine," she said to her
daughter-in-law. "None of my money shall go to Montreal. It would be
only such a little while for Berthê to wait. I cannot last long."
So she had said for three years and Berthê had grown tired of waiting.
Her imagination fed on the life of devotion and exaltation that her aunt
wrote about.
At noon Marie De Ber was married. She shivered a little in her white
gown, for the church was cold. Her veil fell all over her and no one
could see whether her face was joyful or not. Truth to tell, she was
sadly frightened, but everybody was merry, and her husband wrapped her
in a fur cloak and packed her in his sledge. A procession followed, most
of them on foot, for there was to be a great dinner at Tony Beeson's.
Then, although the morning had been so lovely, the sky clouded over with
leaden gray and the wind came in great sullen gusts from Lake Huron. You
could hear it miles away, a fierce roar such as the droves of bisons
made, as if they were breaking in at your very door. Pani hung the
bearskin against the door and let down the fur curtains over the
windows. There was a bright log fire and Jeanne curled up on one side in
a wolfskin, resting her head on a cushion of cedar twigs that gave out a
pleasant fragrance. Pani sat quietly on the other side. There was no
light but the blaze. Neither was the Indian woman used to the small
industries some of the French took up when they had passed girlhood. In
a slow, phlegmatic fashion she used to go over her past life, raising up
from their graves, as it were, Madame de Longueil, Madame Bellestre, and
then Monsieur, though he never came from the shadowy grave, but a garden
that bore strange fruit, and where it was summer all the year round. She
had the gift of obedient faith, so she was a good Catholic, as far as
her own soul was concerned, but her duty toward the child often troubled
her.
Jeanne watched the blaze in a strange mood, her heart hot and angry at
one moment, proud and indifferent at the next. She said a dozen times a
day to herself that she didn't care a dead leaf for Marie, who had grown
so consequential and haughty, and Rose, who was full of her own
pleasure. It seemed as if other children had dropped out as well, but
then in this cold weather she could not run out to the farms or lead a
group of eager young people to see her do amazing feats. For she could
walk out on the limb of a tree and laugh while it swung up and down with
her weight, and then catch the limb of the next tree and fling herself
over, amid their shouts. No boy dared climb higher. She had caught
little owls who blinked at her with yellow eyes, but she always put them
back in the trees again.
"You wouldn't like to be carried away by fierce Indians," she said when
the children begged they might keep them. "They like their homes and
their mothers."
"As if an owl could tell who its mother was!" laughed a boy
disdainfully.
She had hardly known the feeling of loneliness. What did she do last
winter, she wondered? O yes, she played with the De Ber children, and
there were the Pallents, whom she seldom went to visit now, they seemed
