"Who on earth is she?"
"I reckon she came in afore you met us," mused Texas. "Yes, 'twas 'fore
you joined the Banded Seven. You know Bull Harris?"
"B'gee!" laughed Dewey. "Didn't I lick the cuss once?"
"That's so," said Texas. "I forgot. Well, Bull--'twas jes' like him--was
botherin' this girl down on the road to Highland Falls one day. He had
hold of her arm an' she was fightin' to git away or somethin'. Anyhow
Mark knocked him down, which was the beginnin' of all this hazin'
business. Bull got all his yearlin' gang after Mark. After that Mark did
her 'nother favor, got her brother out of a terrible scrape. An' I think
she's been mighty fond of him ever since."
"B'gee!" laughed Dewey. "This is real romantic. What makes you think
so?"
"I've seen her hangin' roun' the hospital inquirin' fo' Mark. An' I can
tell by the way she looks at him. I don't think she likes to see him so
chummy with Grace."
"That's more romantic yet," chuckled Dewey. "Why don't Mark care for
her?"
"You see," said Texas, "some o' the cadets, one of 'em a pretty decent
feller, a friend o' Mark's, told him that she waren't--she waren't quite
right. She's somethin' of a flirt, you know. I don't like girls that
kind much myself an' I'm sure Mark don't. He's kep' pretty shy o' her,
an' I kinder think she's noticed it."
"Is she pretty?" inquired the other.
"She's mos' as pretty as Grace," responded Texas. "An' that's sayin' a
deal. She's what you call a brunette--black hair an' eyes. There's some
girls a feller feels are all right; he feels he's a better feller when
he's with them. Grace Fuller's one of 'em. She's jes' the angel we call
her. Then there's some that ain't, an' this girl's one of them."
"Quite a character analysis," laughed the other. "But I guess, b'gee,
you're right, all the same. And speaking of unpleasant characters,
there's that Bull Harris. We haven't heard from him for a long time."
"I reckon," said Texas, "Bull's been wantin' to see what the first
class'd do to Mark since he'd failed to haze him. I reckon the durty ole
rascal's right well satisfied now."
"You don't love him much," observed the other.
"Why should I? Ain't he tried every mean kid trick he could think of on
Mark an' me, too? He's all right to bully girls but when he tried Mark
now, he found he'd hit a snag. He's been doin' nothin' ever since but
tryin' to get us into scrapes. An' I was thinkin' to-day, 'tain't no
lucky sign he's quiet. I jes' reckon he's plottin' some new durnation
trick."
"I wish he'd come on with it," laughed Dewey. "Life is getting really
monotonous the last two days since Mark's been in hospital. We've been
having so many lively and interesting brushes with the cadets, b'gee,
that I can't get along without some excitement at least every day."
"I reckon it'll come soon enough," observed Texas. "An' they say when
you speak of angels they flap their wings. I wonder how 'bout devils.
There's ole Bull Harris now, the third feller from the right in the
front rank of A."
"And he's going out to salute the general," observed Dewey. "I wish we
had another bloodhound now so's we could put it on his trail the way we
did once. B'gee, but he was mad!"
As the two had been talking the battalion had formed on the company
ground; roll call had passed quickly, and the cadet adjutant had turned
the parade over to the charge of the tactical officer, Lieutenant Allen.
The latter's sharp commands had rung out a moment later and the
firmly-stepping lines had swung around and were now well on their way
down the parade ground, at the other end of which stood the famous
general and his staff.
It was an inspiring moment. The air seemed fairly to shake with the gay
music of the band. The cadet's uniforms and equipments were glittering
in the sunlight, their banners waving on the breeze. They wheeled like
so many splendid pieces of mechanism and in a few moments more were
standing at "present arms" in one long line that extended the width of
the field.
The officers brought their swords up to the salute and the spectators
cheered, as a handsome figure rode out from the group of officers and
cantered down the line. It was General Miles himself, a fine military
figure, striking and imposing. The cadets would have cheered him, too,
if they had dared.
During this interesting ceremony our two friends of the plebe class had
gotten up and started on a run for the scene. They had been so much
interested in their discussion of "Meg" Adams and Bull Harris that they
had forgotten all about watching this. But by the time they got there
the review was over, and the cadets had scattered once more. This time
to prepare for exhibition drill of the afternoon.
The two wandered about disconsolately after that, Texas growling at
Dewey for having talked too much. And then suddenly the former stopped
short and stared at his friend.
"I know what I'm going to do!" he declared.
"What?"
"I'm a-goin' to see Mark."
"I thought they wouldn't let you in," laughed Dewey.
"I'm a-goin' all the same," vowed the other. "Ef they won't let me I'll
make 'em. Jes' you watch me!"
And with that the impulsive Texan faced about and set out for the
hospital in a hurry.
CHAPTER XXVI.
TEXAS HAS AN INTERVIEW.
Texas' promised "fun" in the effort to see Mark did not, as it proved,
materialize; because, whereas Texas had expected to be refused
admittance and to raise a rumpus about it, he was allowed to enter and
was escorted to Mark's room with all politeness.
"Well!" thought Texas, "I reckon he must be gittin' better."
This eventually proved to be the case; and Texas shrewdly guessed the
reason for it as he approached the room and heard the sound of voices
through the open door.
"With her to talk to," he muttered, "anybody could get well."
Grace Fuller was sitting by the window, dressed in white, an angel of
loveliness, as she appeared to Powers. She was reading aloud to Mark,
but she stopped suddenly as Texas burst into the room. And a moment
later the newcomer had seized his chum by his one well arm and was
shaking it vigorously.
"Hello, ole man!" he cried. "I kain't tell you how glad I am to see
you."
"Take it easy," said Mark, smiling. "I've got better news still. They
found that my shoulder was only dislocated; and I'll be out to-day."
Texas uttered a whoop that brought the attendants in on a run. He
subsided after a threat of expulsion and sat down by the bedside and
stared at Mark. It was still the same old Mark, handsome and sturdy, but
just a little pale.
"Say," growled Texas, "you've got no idee how lonely things are 'thout
you. There's nobody to lick the cadets, or anything."
"What's all the fuss I hear?" inquired Mark.
Texas explained to him what was happening; and went into ecstasies when
he was told that Mark would be out to see that afternoon's drill. With
just the same startling impulsiveness as that which had led him to pay
his brief visit, Texas sprang up again and made for the door.
"Wow!" he cried. "I'm a-goin' out to tell the fellers 'bout this. Whoop!
See you later, Mark. I reckon you're in pretty good company."
Mark "reckoned" so too, and said so, as he laughed over his friend's
hot-headed manner.
Texas in the meantime was bounding down the hall and out of the door of
the building; he meant to turn up toward camp on a run, and he had even
started up the street. But something happened just then that made him
change his mind in a hurry. In the first place he heard some one call
his name:
"Mr. Powers! Oh, Mr. Powers!"
It was a sweet girlish voice, and "Mr. Powers" faced about with
alacrity, to find himself, to his infinite surprise, face to face with
Mary Adams, the girl he had not long ago been discussing.
"Hello!" thought he, "what on earth's up?"
His surprise was the greater because he did not know the girl; he had
never been introduced to her, and he wondered how she even knew his
name. She was indeed a beautiful girl, with a full round figure, deep
black hair and eyes, and a complexion that was warm and red. There was a
look of anxiety upon her face that the cadet did not fail to notice.
"Tell me!" she cried. "Mr. Powers, how is he?"
"Why--why----" stammered Texas, adding, "Bless my soul!" after the
fashion of his fat friend Indian. "He's all right. He'll be out this
afternoon."
"I thought he was nearly killed," said the girl. "I have been so
worried."
There was a brief silence after that, during which Texas shifted his
feet in embarrassment.
"Tell me," she exclaimed, suddenly. "Do you--do you think he would like
to see me?"
"Why, er!" stammered Texas. "To be sure. Why wouldn't he?"
The girl noticed his hesitating tone, and her dark eyes flashed as she
spoke again.
"Answer me," she cried. "Is she there?"
"If by 'she,'" answered the other, "you mean Miss Fuller?"
"Yes, yes, I mean her."
"Then she is," said Texas, defiantly.
He said that with a dogged, none-of-your-business sort of an air, though
rather sheepishly for all that. The girl stared at him for a moment, and
then to Texas' indescribable consternation and bewilderment, she buried
her head in her hands and burst into a passionate flood of tears.
"My Lord!" gasped the astounded plebe.
Poor Texas wasn't used to girls; the only things he knew of that cried
were babies, and a baby he would have taken in his arms and rocked until
it stopped. But he had an instinctive impression that that wouldn't do
in this case. Beyond that he was at a loss.
"Bless my soul, Miss Adams!" he cried--no exclamation seemed to do quite
so well as Indian's in that case. "Please don't do that! What on earth's
the matter?"
Texas had a vague idea that some one might come that way any moment; and
he wondered what that person would think to look at them. Texas just
then wished himself anywhere on earth but there.
In response to his embarrassed pleading, the girl finally looked through
her tears. And her eyes, red with weeping, gave her beautiful face a
look of anguish that touched the Texan's big heart.
"Lord bless me!" said he. "Miss Adams, is there anything I can do?"
She looked at him for a moment and then she answered "Yes," and turned
slowly down the street.
"Come," she said. "Mr. Powers, I want to talk to you."
If he had wanted to, Texas could not have disobeyed; the fact of the
matter was that Texas was too bewildered to have any wants. The true
state of affairs had not dawned upon his unromantic mind.
The two hurried down the road toward Highland Falls, the cadet following
meekly. They came almost to "cadet limits," to an old lonely road that
turned off to the right. Up that the girl turned, and when she was well
out of sight of the main road, turned and faced her companion.
"Now," she said, "I will tell you. Oh, why is it you do not see?"
The look upon her face made Texas fear she was going to burst into tears
again, and he shifted about uncomfortably.
And just then came the crash.
"Tell me, Mr. Powers," demanded the girl, with a suddenness that almost
took the other's breath away, "Tell me, Mr. Powers, do you think
he--he--likes me?"
Texas started; he stared at the girl's anxious face; a sudden light
breaking in upon him. And the girl gazed into his deep gray eyes and
saw--she knew not what.
"Why--why----" stammered Texas.
"I have thought so much of him," cried Mary Adams, pouring out her
feelings, in a passionate flood of words. "I have followed him about, I
have watched him all day! Ever since he befriended me so that night when
he saved my brother, I have thought of no one but him. He is so splendid
and brave and handsome! He--never even looks at me!"
The girl's last words were said in a tone of anguish and despair, and
she buried her head in her hands once more.
"It is all that other girl!" she continued, after a moment's pause. "He
thinks of no one but her! Oh, how I hate her! He is with her all the
time; he asked her to join that society----"
"How--how on earth did you know?" gasped Texas.
"Do you think I am blind?" cried the girl, fiercely. "Do you suppose I
cannot see what Mark Mallory is doing? It is all that Grace Fuller--all!
And, oh, what shall I do?"
In a perfect convulsion of sobbing the girl flung herself down upon the
bank at the side of the road. And Texas stood and gazed at her in
consternation and embarrassment, and vowing if the gods ever got him out
of that most incomprehensible fix, he'd never look at a girl again. A
dozen Comanches could not have inspired Texas with half the awe that
this one passionate and beautiful creature did.
"Miss Adams," he said, at last, "I--I really don't think Mark knows how
you regard him."
"I know it," sobbed the girl; "he doesn't! But I cannot tell him!"
A sudden and brilliant idea flashed across Texas' mind.
"I can!" he exclaimed. "I can, an' I will."
The girl sprang to her feet and stared at him.
"No! no!" she cried, in horror. "What would----"
But Texas had already turned and was striding off in excitement.
"Gosh!" he muttered. "That's jes' the thing! I'll tell Mark fo' her, ef
she kaint. An' anyhow, I couldn't keep a secret from Mark. Dog gone it,
I'd have to ask his advice. This yere's a 'portant matter."
Texas heard Mary Adams crying out to him to come back, imploring him to
listen to her. But Texas, once well out of that embarrassing fix and
beyond the spell of the beautiful girl had no idea of returning to his
uncomfortable position. And to his rough old heart there was no reason
on earth why he should not tell Mark. Who else ought to know it but
Mark?
"An'," muttered Texas, "ef she ain't got sense 'nough to tell him, I
will."
So, deaf to the girl's entreaties, he left her to bemoan her fate alone
and set out in hot haste for camp.
CHAPTER XXVII.
A PLOT TO BEAT "THE GENERAL."
Now the adventures of Texas were wild and exciting, to him, anyway. But
up at camp in the meantime another plebe was having adventures that
fairly put Texas into the shade. The plebe was "Indian," and you may
listen and judge for yourself of the adventures.
Indian had been rather less credulous of late, but the yearlings were
still anxiously watching for another chance to have some fun with him.
The chance came that day.
Nelson A. Miles is a hero of a hundred fights, and as major general he
commands the United States army. The more they considered the importance
of that mighty visitor, the more the yearlings began to think of that
plan. There were a dozen of them got together that morning and swore
they'd fool Indian or die in the effort.
Indian of course had seen the review and had been mightily impressed in
his innocent soul. From the distance he had admired the military figure
and imposing features of the great man. And then, filled with resolves
to fight loyally under him and perhaps some day to be like him, he had
turned away and strolled solemnly back to camp.
He entered his tent, still in that serious, that really heroic mood.
There was no one in the tent, and so Indian had it all alone for his
meditations philosophical.
"Oh, what a fine thing it must be to be a great hero like that!" he
mused. "To gaze upon the world from a large, ethereal standpoint"--an
ethereal standpoint would have made unsteady standing even for a hero;
but Indian did not think of that. "I can have no higher ambition in life
than to imitate that man. As the poet has said:
   'Lives of great men all remind us,
      We can make our lives sublime,
    And departing, leave behind us
      Footprints----'
"Bless my soul!"
Indian had stopped his meditations with startling suddenness; and this
was the reason thereof.
He had heard mysterious sounds in the Company B tent next door. It was a
yearling tent. Two cadets had crept into it silently; and Indian heard
one of them mutter a subdued "S-sh!"
Have you seen a pointer dog prick up his ears suddenly? That was the way
Indian did.
"A plot?" said one of the yearlings. "A plot did you say? What is it?
Tell me? I'll come in!"
"S-sh!" said the other. "Do you swear eternal secrecy, swear it by the
bones of the saints?"
"I swear!" growled the other in a low, sepulchral voice. "Out with it!"
"All the fellows know," continued the other. "They'll all help. But not
the plebes! Do you hear? Not a word to the plebes! If any plebe should
hear he'd surely tell on us, and that would ruin us. He might do it, you
know, for he'd get no end of reward. They might even promote him, make
him a yearling."
Indian's little fat heart was bounding with delight. A plot! And he knew
it! Ye gods! Bless my soul! He crept close to the wall of his tent,
straining eyes and ears to listen, not to lose the faintest sound of
this most important news.
"It must be something desperate," gasped the other.
"Yes, it is. S-sh! You'll nearly drop I know when I tell you. We're----"
Indian's eyes were like walnuts, half out of his head.
"We're going," continued the yearling, slowly, "we're going to beat the
general!"
"Beat the general!" echoed the other. "By George, I'll help! I'm glad of
it. I----"
Indian heard no more. Quietly he had arisen from the tent floor,
glancing about like a serpent rearing his glittering head from the
grass. He arose; he crept to the tent door; and a moment later he was
striding down the street as fast as his little legs could carry him.
So that was the plot! Those wicked and reckless cadets who had hazed him
so much were now going to beat the general! The general could, of
course, mean only one general, the great general. There was no general
at West Point but Major General Miles.
Indian never once stopped until he was well out of camp, out of the
enemies' hands. A man with so mighty a secret as that could afford to
take no risks; he must lurk in the shadows until he saw his chance to
reveal the whole daring conspiracy. Visions rose up before his delighted
mind, visions of himself a hero like Mark, congratulated by all, even
made a yearling as the cadets had hinted. Indian even imagined himself
already as hazing the rest of the plebes.
These thoughts in his mind, he was suddenly startled by seeing two
yearlings coming near. Were they after him? Indian trembled. Nearer and
nearer. No, they had passed him. And then, once more, he heard the
words:
"Yes, yes! We're going to beat the general!"
"What! Heavens, suppose some one should find it out."
That settled it. Indian sprang up boldly and strode away, determination
in his very waddle. He knew! And he would tell!
At that moment Indian saw Cadet Fischer crossing the parade ground.
Surely, thought Indian, so high and responsible an officer as this had
nothing to do with the plot! Why not tell him? And so at him Indian made
a dash.
"Mr. Fischer! Oh, Captain Fischer!"
The officer turned in surprise. Hailed by a common plebe.
"Mr. Fischer!" gasped Indian. "Bless my soul! I hear they're going to
beat the general!"
"Yes," said the other. "In half an hour. But why----"
Good heavens, he knew it too! And like a flash, the frightened plebe
wheeled and dashed away. There was only one resource left now. He would
tell the general himself.
Across the parade ground dashed Indian, panting, gasping. Down by the
headquarters building, he saw a group of horses standing. One charger he
recognized instantly. The general was inside the building, and a moment
later a group of officers appeared in the doorway. The handsome,
commanding figure in front. Indian's heart bounded for joy; and then
suddenly the amazed General Miles was greeted by a gasping, excited
cadet in plebe fatigue uniform.
"General, oh, general! Bless my soul!"
The officer stared at him.
"A plot!" panted Indian. "Oh, general, please don't go"--puff--"near the
camp--bless my soul! A plot!"
"A plot!" echoed the other. "A plot! What do you mean?"
"They're going to hurt you--bless my soul!"
"Hurt me! Who?"
"The cadets, sir! Bless my soul, I--puff--heard them say, they
were--puff--oh!--going to b-b-beat the general."
There was a moment of silence, then a perfect roar of laughter came from
the staff officers. The general laughed too, for a moment, but when he
saw the plebe's alarm and perplexity he stopped and gazed at him with a
kindly expression. "My boy," he said, "you've been letting the yearlings
fool you."
"Fool me!" echoed Indian in horror. "Bless my soul!--how?"
"Beating the general means," answered the officer, "beating the general
assembly, which is a drum call."
The officers shook with laughter again, and as for poor Indian, he was
thunderstruck. So he had been fooled again! So he had let those mean
cadets haze him once more! And--and----
Poor Indian's eyes began to fill with tears. And he choked down a great
big sob. The old officer saw his look of misery.
"Do they fool you often that way, my boy?" he asked, sympathetically.
"Ye--yes!" answered Indian, at the verge of a weeping spell. "Ye--yes,
th-they do. And I think it's real mean."
"So do I," said the general, smiling. "I tell you how we'll fix it.
Don't you let on they succeeded."
"I can't help it," moaned Indian. "They know! L-look!"
With trembling finger he pointed across the street to where in the
shadow of the sally port of the academy stood a group of hilarious
yearlings, fully half the class, wild with glee. The general shook his
head as he looked, and poor Indian got out his handkerchief as a
precaution.
"Too bad!" said the former. "Too bad, I declare! We'll have to turn that
joke on them somehow or other. Let me see. Let me see. How would you
like it for me to help you get square, as you boys say?"
Indian gazed up at the stalwart and kindly form confidingly; he was all
smiles in a moment.
"I'll tell you," said the general at last, "you and I'll take a walk.
And when they see you with me, they'll be sorry they sent you. Come on."
He took the arm of the delighted Indian, who was scarcely able to
realize the extent of his good fortune.
"You'll excuse me a short while, gentlemen," said General Miles to his
military staff. "I'll return shortly. And now," to Indian, "where shall
we go? I guess I'll let you show me about camp."
And sure enough, pinching himself to make sure if he really were awake,
Indian, on the arm of the mighty guest of West Point, commander of Uncle
Sam's whole army, marched away up the road past the parade ground and
all through Camp McPherson.
The general was enjoying the joke hugely, but he affected not to notice
it, and plied the plebe with questions.
Why did the yearlings haze him so much? Was he B. J.? Oh, it was because
he was a friend of Mark Mallory's, was it! General Miles had heard of
Mark Mallory. He was the plebe who had saved the life of the general's
friend, Judge Fuller's daughter. A beautiful girl that! And a splendid
act! Indian had seen it, had he? Colonel Harvey had described it to the
general. The general would like to meet Mark Mallory. No, he was not
joking; he really would. Mr. Mallory was in hospital, was he? Too bad!
Had been too B. J., had he? The general liked B. J. plebes. He hoped
Mark was not badly hurt. And----
Then suddenly the conversation was interrupted by a cry of joy from
Indian.
"There's Mark now! He's out of hospital!"
"That handsome lad down the street there?" inquired the general, "let us
go down by all means."
A moment later, Mark, to his great amazement, was confronted by the
curiously contrasted pair. Indian was beaming like a sunflower.
"Mr. Mallory," he said, with a flourish, "allow me to present my friend,
General Miles."
Mark bowed, and the general took the hand he held out.
"Mr. Mallory," he said, "I am proud to meet you. I have heard of what
you have done. The service needs such men as you."
And the whole corps heard him say so, too. The general had been very
careful to say those words in a loud and clear voice that made the camp
ring. Then he turned and spoke to an orderly who was passing.
"Tell my staff to ride up here for me," he said, and added, turning to
the two radiant plebes: "Now, my young friends, I must ask you to excuse
me. I am very pleased to have met you both. Good-morning, Mr. Smith, and
Mr. Mallory."
With which he turned and strode away up the street again, smiling at the
recollection of the incident. And Mark stood and stared at his grinning
friend Indian.
"Well," said he, "you blessed idiot, you certainly do beat the Dutch!"
And then he turned and went into the tent.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
"BULL" FINDS AN ALLY.
"For Heaven's sake, man, you don't mean this for a fact, do you?"
It was Mark who spoke; he sat alone in his tent with Texas late that
evening, and Texas was telling him the story of Mary Adams and what she
had done during the day.
"And did she tell you to tell me this?" Mark continued, in amazement.
"No," said Texas; "she didn't want me to a bit. I couldn't make her out
't all. She wanted you to know it, but she didn't want me to tell it."
"I'm afraid," laughed the other, "that you haven't a very delicate sense
of propriety. I'm afraid you're no ladies' man, Texas."
"That's all right," answered Texas. "I think I managed this yere affair
right well. Now, what I want to know is, what you're goin' to do 'bout
it?"
"That's just what I want to know," said his friend. "I'm as puzzled as
you. Why, I hadn't the least idea the poor girl felt that way about me."
"Don't you care for her?"
"Why, of course, man. I like her well enough, from what I know of her.
But I don't want any of that sickly, sentimental business in mine, and
especially about a girl like her. I'm afraid of her, and I don't know
what on earth to say to her. I wish to gracious, old man, you hadn't
said a word to me about it."
Texas gazed at Mark with a grieved expression. That was a nice thing to
say to a man who was just priding himself on having managed a delicate
affair so nicely. And Texas arose to his feet.
"Well," said he, "I'm sorry you don't like it. An' ef that's all I git,
I'll keep out of it."
With which he bounced out of the tent and strode away. Mark also left
the tent for a walk a moment later, still thinking.
The girl was sincere, that was certain. And he knew it all, and so did
she. The question was, what could Mark do without hurting her feelings.
She was wildly jealous of Grace. Now Mark had not the remotest idea of
dropping Grace Fuller, his "angel"; he did not like even to think of her
in connection with this girl. He knew in his heart it would be best to
let Mary Adams alone from this time on. But what would she think then?
Mark was weighing this question as he went. He was not noticing,
meanwhile, where he was going. It was within half an hour or so of
tattoo he knew, and a dark, cloudy night. He had taken the path down
through "Flirtation Walk," heeding no one; he had strolled to the other
end, and turned to retrace his steps when suddenly he halted in
surprise. A dark figure was hurrying past him, and as he gazed at it and
recognized it, he exclaimed aloud:
"Miss Adams!" he cried. "You here!"
The girl turned and faced him, pushing aside the shawl she wore and
disclosing her face in all its passionate beauty.
"Mr. Mallory!" she cried, in just as much surprise; and then gazed at
him trembling.
"Miss Adams," said Mark, quietly, after a moment's thought. "I want to
have a talk with you, if you please. May I?"
"Yes," she cried. "Yes, but not here. I want to see you alone."
She turned, and Mark followed her, almost having to run to keep up with
the girl's excited pace. They descended the hill at the end of the path,
and then on they went almost to the Hudson's shore. It was a dark,
deserted spot, and there the girl halted. Mark stopped too, and she
turned about and gazed at him.
"Now, then," said she.
Mark said nothing at first; he was watching her features, admiring them
and at the same time wondering at the emotion they showed. Her cheeks
became red as fire under his gaze.
"Mr. Powers has told you all?" she demanded at last. "He has; I can see
it!"
Mark started as he noticed the tone of her voice; he had never heard her
speak that way before. Usually her voice was soft and melodious, a voice
with a hidden, musical charm. Now it was cold and harsh, and Mark knew
at once what that meant.
The girl was angry already. She saw that he was about to cast her aside,
after all her passionate, humiliating confession. And she was putting a
bold, brazen front upon it.
"I can see!" she cried, suddenly. "I can see it all in your face. You do
not care for me!"
"Miss Adams," he began, quietly; the girl shook her head impatiently.
"Call me Mary or Moll!" she exclaimed. "Call me Mary and be done with
it. They all do."
Mark was puzzled. He did not wish to call her Mary, he did not wish to
indicate any familiarity. He saw on the other hand that to refuse would
be to cut her to the quick; but he chose the latter course.
"I shall call you Miss Adams," he said, decisively. "And I want to
explain to you----"
The girl stamped her foot upon the ground.
"There is no need for you to explain!" she cried. "I know! I know it
all! I have watched you, followed you, dreamed of you, and you have
flung me off."
As she spoke, the girl had been striding about the spot. As she finished
she bowed her head and broke into a passion of tears.
"But, Miss Adams," expostulated Mark, "you will not let me explain."
"'Explain!'" The girl raised her head and tossed her dark hair in anger,
while her eyes flashed. "I do not want you to explain! Your explanations
are simply honeyed words to hide the facts. I know the facts. You want
to tell me why. I know why! It is because of her, of her! I hate her,
the yellow-haired creature. And I hate you! Yes, I hate you! You have
treated me as if I were a puppet, as if I had no right to live. And I do
not want to live. I have no use for life. I wish I were dead!"
The girl had raised her hands to the sky, a weird figure; she gazed
about her despairingly as she finished.
"I wish I were dead!" she cried, again.
The wind whistled through the lonely trees as she spoke, and made a
strange accompaniment to her impassioned voice. A steamboat, plying the
river, was softly churning little waves that lapped against the shore
and made a low, gurgling sound upon the rocks. The girl gazed over the
steep, dark bank as she cried out in her wretchedness, and the next
instant she sprang forward.
The thought had flashed over Mark at the same moment. He saw the girl
move, and seized her. She turned upon him with the fury of a tiger, a
tiger she was, with all a tiger's passions. For a moment they struggled
and wrestled, the girl crying out all the time. And then she tore
herself loose with one mighty effort--Mark had only one free hand--and
lunged down, down into the darkness.
Mark heard a splash and a gurgle of the black invisible waters. And then
all was silent as the grave.
Mark Mallory hesitated, hesitated for the first time in his life. One
arm was bound tight in a sling and helpless. He was weak and faint yet
from his maltreatment. Still he could not see her die without trying to
save her. His hesitation gone, he took a step forward, but he was too
late.
There was a quick noise behind him; he heard the word "coward!" hissed
in his ear, and a white figure shot past him and dived out into the
darkness.
Mark gasped with relief; and quick to act, he turned, and helpless
though he was, clambered down around the side to reach the spot. He
heard sounds of a struggle out beyond him; he heard some whispered
words, and a moment later the figure of the rescuer arose out of the
water and confronted him, bearing the girl in his arms.
It was Bull Harris!
Mark started back instinctively; and Bull sneered as he saw it.
"Coward!" he repeated. "Coward! The corps shall know of this!"
Mark knew that expostulation and explanation were useless and
unnecessary. He said not a word, but saw the girl safely brought to
shore. And then, sad and heavy at heart, he turned and walked back
toward the camp.
Bull Harris stayed, to reap the fruit of his labors. He held the
half-fainting, half-hysterical girl in his arms and wiped her straying
hair from her face and sought to calm her. He seemed to like his task,
for when she was better he made no move to stop.
"Did he push you over?" inquired Bull, insinuatingly.
"No," cried the girl, with fierceness. "He did not. But I hate him!"
"You might say he did then!" the yearling whispered softly.
Mary Adams glanced at him with a sharp look.
"I might," she said, "if I chose. And I may. What's that to you?"
"To me!" cried Bull clinching the girl's hand in his until she cried
out. "To me! I hate him! I could kill him!"
"You were rude to me once," she muttered.
"Yes," exclaimed Bull. "I was. You liked him, and I hated you for it."
That was a lie, but the girl did not choose, for some reason, to say so.
"Come," she said, striving to arise. "Help me home."
"One moment!" cried Bull, holding her back. "Promise me one thing, one
thing before you go."
"What is it?"
"I know the whole story, Mary," he said. "I know how he has treated you,
how he has cast you off, made a puppet of you, and all for that Grace
Fuller! You say you hate him. So do I. Promise me, promise me to be
revenged if you have to die for it."
"I will!" cried she, furiously.
"Will you give me your hand on it?"
"I will."
Bull took her home that night, though he was in no hurry about it. He
came in after taps, for he thought it would do him good to hand in his
explanation that he had been saving a girl's life, and restoring her to
consciousness. A girl; perhaps a girl upon whom murder had been
attempted.
He evaded all details, however, and went to his tent chuckling
triumphantly at his evil work that night.
He had laid a foundation for trouble, but would success follow?
Only the future could tell.
CHAPTER XXIX.
STRANGE CONDUCT.
"Say, fellows, what do you think?"
"What's the matter?"
"Mallory's given in!"
"Given in! How do you mean?"
"He's going to let himself be hazed."
"What!"
Two more surprised cadets than the two who uttered this last exclamation
it would be hard to imagine. They had been sitting on a bench near
Trophy Point, and one of them had been carelessly tinkling a mandolin.
He had dropped the instrument and leaped to his feet. Now he was staring
with open mouth at the new arrival, who bore the extraordinary tidings.
"Mallory given up! Gus Murray, what on earth do you mean?"
The three were yearlings, all of them. The crowd which has usually been
designated in these stories as "Bull Harris' gang." There was Gus
Murray, the new arrival, a low, brutal-looking chap. There was the
sickly and disagreeable "Merry" Vance. And there was the little fellow
"Baby" Edwards, the meanest of them all.
"You surely can't mean," cried Vance, "that Mallory has consented to
allow the fellows to haze him?"
"Better than that even," chuckled Murray. "Better than that!"
"For Heaven's sake," gasped the other, "sit down and tell us what you do
mean. What is the use of talking riddles?"
Thus enjoined, Gus Murray explained; he was nothing loath to tell the
tale.
"I'll tell you how it was," he said. "I was never more astounded in my
life. I saw that plebe strolling down the street a while ago, holding
his head high as ever and looking as if he owned the place."
"Confound him!" muttered Vance.
"You know," the other continued, "he's never done any work like the rest
of the plebes. Usually we yearlings make them fix our tents and guns,
and carry water, and so on. Mallory never has, and of course nobody's
succeeded in making him. I thought I'd guy him a little just now and see
how he'd take it. So I stopped and said, 'See here, plebe. Let me show
you how to clean a gun.'"
"And what did he say?" cried Vance.
"Just as B. J. as ever," growled Murray. "'Thank you,' he said, 'I'll go
get mine and let you do it.' Of course he knew perfectly well that I
wanted to show him on mine and let him do the work. I said to him,
'I've a gun to show you on, if you please.' And by George----"
"You don't mean he cleaned your gun for you!" gasped Baby.
"That's just exactly what I do! You might have knocked me over with a
feather. He said, 'Certainly, sir.' Yes, by jiminy, he actually said
'sir.' And when I left him he was working away like a beaver. He had the
gun half cleaned. What do you think of that?"
Gus finished and gazed at his two companions triumphantly. He felt that
he had accomplished something that no other member of his class ever
had.
"I'll bet Mallory was afraid of you," chirruped Baby Edwards. "Don't you
suppose that's it, Merry?"
Vance picked up his mandolin and resumed his cynical smile.
"I'll tell you what I think," he said.
"What?" demanded Murray.
"That you're a fool."
"What do you mean?"
"Simply," said Vance, "that Mallory was playing some kind of a joke on
you."
"But he wasn't!" cried the other. "I went back after he was through and
the gun was perfect. The wood was polished till it shone like a mirror.
I actually did not like to touch it, it was so pretty."
"And how about the rest of the tent?" inquired Vance.
"He hadn't disturbed a thing. I looked particularly. I tell you, man,
that Mallory has given in."
"It's not much like him," said Merry, dubiously.
"You don't have to look very far for the cause," began Murray. "You
remember how the first class gave him a licking the other day?"
Vance admitted that might have something to do with it.
"It's got everything," chuckled Murray. "It's simply broken his spirit.
Why look, man! He was black and blue all over. Even now one of his arms
is in a sling. I tell you he's made up his mind that it isn't safe to
carry on as he's been, and so he's decided to get meek and mild for a
change."
"And, oh, say, if it's true!" cried Baby, excitedly. "If it's true! Gee
whiz, won't we have some fun!"
"Just won't we!" responded Murray, doubling up his fists and glaring as
if the hated plebe were really in front of him. "I just tell you I mean
to make him wish he'd never been born. I've been waiting for a chance to
get even with that confounded beast, and now I'll have him."
For the next half hour there was joy unbounded among those three young
gentlemen. Only those who are familiar with their dispositions can
comprehend the amount of satisfaction they felt; and only those who know
our friend Mark Mallory's character as they did can appreciate their
surprise at his "flunk."
"I wish Bull were here to hear about it," remarked Baby at last.
"Where is Bull anyhow?" inquired Murray, who was chief lieutenant in
Bull's gang and an invaluable assistant in all of Bull's schemes for
revenge upon Mark.
That question changed the topic of conversation for a few minutes. It
was Vance who answered it.
"There's something mysterious about Bull," he said. "I've been puzzling
my head to think what it means. You know Bull was absent from taps last
night."
"What!"
"Yes, he was. And you know that's a pretty serious offense. It may mean
court-martial, you know."
"Good gracious!" gasped Baby. "What would we do without Bull?"
"I guess we won't have to," laughed Vance. "You needn't begin to worry.
I was corporal of the guard last night when Bull came in to report. It
was way after eleven."
"Where on earth had he been?"
"He wouldn't tell me. He was very mysterious. It seems that he had been
in the water somehow and was soaking wet; all I could get out of him was
that the business had something to do with Mary Adams."
"Mary Adams!" cried Gus. "I thought she wouldn't speak to him."
"Well, I don't know," said Vance. "That was what Bull told me. Anyhow he
didn't seem a bit alarmed about his absence."
"The superintendent sent for him this afternoon," put in Murray. "I
suppose that was to give him a chance to explain the matter."
"Yes, and I saw Bull with Mary a while ago," added the other, shrewdly.
"I shouldn't wonder if Bull were getting up some scheme. He hasn't said
much about Mallory to-day. He's been very mysterious."
The mystery, whatever it was, was destined to remain unsolved, however,
for just then the rattle of a drum echoed across the field, and the
three sprang up hastily.
"It's dress parade," said Murray.
"Yes," responded Vance, dryly. "And now you'll have a chance to show off
that beautifully cleaned gun of yours. Come on."
CHAPTER XXX.
A SURPRISE FOR MURRAY.
Gus Murray went straight to his tent when the group broke up. He hastily
dusted off his clothes and looked at himself in the glass to make sure
that nothing was out of place. Then he took up his gun from the rack and
hurried out to "fall in."
A moment later the order was given, "'Tention company!" and after roll
call the battalion wheeled and marched out upon the parade ground.
The ceremony of dress parade has been described in these pages before.
The solemn cadet adjutant formed the parade and then turned it over to
his superior. The gayly-dressed band marched down the line and took its
station. A few moments later the battalion was in the midst of its
evolutions.
It was not very long before they halted again, down toward the southern
end of the plain, to go through the manual of arms. It was then that Gus
Murray received a shock.
The cadets had been marching with their guns at a "carry." Gus had held
his that way ever since he picked it up, and then suddenly the
lieutenant in command gave the order:
"Present--arms!"
In a "carry" the soldier holds his gun in the right hand, with thumb and
first finger around the trigger guard. In coming to "present" he swings
it up in front of him and seizes the stock in the left hand, at the same
time letting go with the right and reversing his grip.
The cadet lines work like a perfect machine in that drill. Every gun
swings up at the same instant, every hand moves in unison, so that the
sound of the many motions is but one. This time, however, there was a
break, and the cause of it was our dear friend Gus.
Gus got through the first part of the motion all right. On the second
part he got "stuck"--in more senses than one. When he went to let go
with his right hand--he couldn't!
At first he could hardly understand what was happening. He pulled and
tugged with all his might. But it did no good; his hand was fast. And in
an instant the horrible truth flashed over him--Mallory--he had polished
the gun with glue!
Every spectator on the grounds was staring at Gus. As for him, he was
still tugging and wrestling, blushing, and gasping with rage. Finally he
saw that his efforts were useless, and he gave it up in despair; he
stood silent and helpless, gazing into space.
Lieutenant Ross was the name of tac in command, and he was noted for
being a crank. He gave no more orders, of course, but stood and stared
at the offending cadet in horror and indignation, while the cadets, who
did not dare to look, but who knew that something was "up," waited and
wondered.
How long this suspense and torture would last no one could tell; the tac
broke in at last.
"Mr. Murray!" he demanded. "What is the matter?"
"My gun!" stammered Murray. "I--I--why--that is----"
"Mr. Murray, leave the ranks!"
Blushing scarlet, the yearling obeyed, conscious of the fact that
hundreds of eyes were upon him. He strode furiously down the line and
once clear, set out on a run for camp, almost ready to cry with
vexation. He reached his tent, rushed in, tore off his glove, and hurled
his musket into the corner. And then he stood in the middle of his tent
and clinched his fists until his nails cut the palms of his hands.
"By Heaven!" he cried, "I'll be revenged on that plebe if I have to kill
him to do it!"
He stayed in his tent, nursing his wrath and resentment, until the
battalion marched back to camp. And he refused to come out then; his
classmates who inquired as to what was the matter received angry replies
for their pains. And when the corps marched down to supper Murray still
sat where he was. He didn't want any supper.
He was in just the mood to welcome a visitor who came then. The visitor
was Murray's chum and crony, Bull Harris.
"Hello, old man," said he, pushing aside the tent flap. "What's up?"
"Go to blazes!" responded Murray, by way of answer.
"Come, come," said Bull, pleasantly. "You don't want to get mad with me,
Gus. Tell me what's wrong."
"It's that confounded plebe!" snapped Murray.
"I thought so," said Bull. "Well, that's what my news is about. I've got
a plot."
And the other's sullen glare gave place to a look of delight in an
instant. He leaped to his feet with an exclamation of joy.
"By George, I knew it!" he cried. "Quick! quick! Out with it! Nothing's
too desperate for me to-night."
"That's good," chuckled Bull. "Very good. Come, let us go and take a
walk. This is a long story; and no one must overhear it, either."
Such is the effect of bad motives upon men. Those two precious rascals
stooped instinctively as they hurried down the company street and
dodged out of camp. Bull led his company down through "Flirtation Walk"
and out to the far end of it. Here they scrambled down the hillside
until they were in a lonely, deserted glen almost at the river's edge.
It was already growing dark with the shadows of the evening. And here
Bull stopped and took a seat.
"I hope this is quiet enough for you," said Murray.
"I had an especial reason for bringing you here!" responded Bull. "All
I've got to tell you about happened here. Do you know, old man, I jumped
into the river off that high bank last night."
"What!" gasped the other. "For Heaven's sake, why?"
"That's in the story," answered Harris. "I'll begin at the beginning.
Listen. You remember how I told you a a while ago when that plebe
Mallory first came here, how Mary Adams and I had a quarrel and that
fool came along and knocked me down."
"You never told me what you were doing," said Murray.
"Never mind. I was a fool to try it, that way. Anyhow, she's hated me
ever since. And oh, how she has struggled to get that plebe. Murray, I'm
smarter than you think. I've been watching this business night and day,
waiting for my chance. And now it's come. I found that plebe and Mary
on this very spot just before taps last night."
"What doing?" gasped Murray.
Bull told the particulars.
"And, by George, I'll be hanged if she didn't end it by flinging herself
head first over that bank!" he concluded.
"What!" gasped Murray.
"Yes, sir. And then I saw my chance. Oh, it was a bonanza for me, Gus!
Mallory was lame, you know, and he hesitated. I rushed past him and
saved her life. Throwing in some heroic flourishes, so's to have the
right effect upon her. I carried her out, and upbraided him as a coward.
He was lame, I knew, and couldn't do anything if he wanted to. And it
made her hate him all the more."
"How did it turn out?"
"Splendidly. He went back to camp, and I took her all the way home. And
you can bet I fixed it all right with her on the way. I made up for what
she was mad about before; and I talked about Mallory and that other girl
until she was wild. And, Gus, we've got her!"
"Got her for what?"
"Mallory! She's our tool, man; we can do just what we please. She'll do
anything on earth for revenge. I almost think she'd kill him."
"You don't mean," gasped Gus, "that she's going to swear he pushed her
into the river?"
"She wanted to," said Bull. "Oh, Murray, you can't imagine how simply
desperate that girl was! She'd simply thrown herself at Mallory's feet,
and he'd kicked her away. At least that was the way it seemed to her,
and you can bet I didn't try to change her view. And she was crying with
rage all the way home. Her face was simply scarlet, and she was
trembling like a leaf. I was honestly afraid of her. She vowed she'd
swear to anything I said if she could only ruin him, and to get that
Grace Fuller away from him. She said she'd swear to it and stick to it
that he tried to murder her. She was even mad because I wouldn't let
her."
"Why didn't you?" cried the other.
"In the first place, I doubt if the superintendent would believe her.
There have been several plots like that tried, but he has too much faith
in that fool of a plebe. Then, too, I doubt if the girl's rage'll last
that long. We must use it while it does. All we want to do is to get
that plebe dismissed."
"That's all!" exclaimed Murray. "But in Heaven's name, how?"
"Didn't I tell you I had a plot?"
"Yes, but what? and when?"
"To-night!" cried Bull. "To-night! And I want you to help us."
Murray sprang up in excitement and joy. Bull hushed his exclamations,
and after glancing cautiously about him to make sure that no one was
near in that now black and shadowy glade, went on in a low, muttering
tone:
"It's very simple," he whispered. "It's because it's so simple it's sure
to work. It won't leave Mallory the ghost of a chance. I'm just as sure,
man, sure as I stand on this spot of ground, that Mallory will be
court-martialed in a week."
"What is it?" cried Murray.
"Listen. Mary's going to write him a letter to-night, send it to him
about midnight, asking him to come to her. Then----"
"But will he come?"
"Certainly. We can make it strong. She will. She can say she's dying,
anything to make sure. He'll go. She lives beyond cadet limits. Some of
us'll be there, catch him, tie him--anything, I don't care. And I know
the girl don't. I think she'd tear his eyes out. Anyhow, we'll fix him
there, beyond limits, and then back to camp we go, make some infernal
racket and have the tac out in no time. Then there'll be an inspection,
and Mallory'll be 'hived' absent after taps. They'll ask him next
morning where he's been, and he'll tell."
"He may lie."
"He won't. He couldn't. I know him too well. And he'll be
court-martialed, and there you are!"
And Gus Murray leaped up with a cry of joy. He seized his companion by
the hand.
"That's it!" he cried. "That's it! By Heaven, it'll do him. And if
there's any blame to bear that fool of a girl shall bear it."
CHAPTER XXXI.
THE PLOT SUCCEEDS.
That beautiful July evening, while those precious rascals sat whispering
and discussing the details of their plan, while first classmen and
yearlings were all down in the academy building at the "hop," a certain
plebe sat in a tent of Company A, all by himself. A candle flickered
beside him, and he held a writing pad in his hand. The plebe was Mark,
his clear-cut, handsome features shining in the yellow light.
      "Dear Mother," he was writing. "It is hard for one to
      get time to write a letter here. We plebes have so
      much to do. But I have promised you to write once a
      week, and so I have stolen off from my friends to drop
      you a line.
      "This is the fifth letter I have written now, the
      close of the fifth week. And I like West Point as much
      as I ever did. You know how much that is. You know how
      I have worked and striven for this chance I have. West
      Point has always been the goal of all my hopes, and I
      am still happy to have reached it. If I should forfeit
      my chance now, it would be by my own fault, I think; I
      know that it would break my heart.
      "We plebes have to work hard nowadays. They wake us up
      at five with a big gun, and after that it is drill all
      day. But I like it, for I am learning lots of things.
      If you could see me sweeping and dusting I know you
      would laugh. Texas says if 'the boys' saw him they'd
      lynch him 'sho'.
      "I told you a lot about Texas the last time I wrote.
      He is the most delightful character I have ever met in
      my life. He is just fresh from the plains, and his
