his intelligence. " Is that the deep reasoning on which — 
about these ladies — you've been yourself so silent?" 
Little Bilham considered the depth of the reasoning. 
" I haven't been silent. I spoke of them to you the other 
day, the day we sat together after Chad's tea-party." 
Strether came round to it. " They then are the virtuous 
attachment?" 
" I can only tell you that it's what they pass for. But 
isn't that enough ? What more than a vain appearance 
does the wisest of us know ? I commend you," the young 
man declared with a pleasant emphasis, " the vain appear- 
ance." 
Strether looked more widely round, and what he saw, 
from face to face, deepened the effect of his young friend's 
words. " Is it so good ? " 
" Magnificent." 
Strether had a pause. " The husband's dead ? " 
" Dear no. Alive." 
" Oh ! " said Strether. After which, as his companion 
laughed : " How then can it be so good ? " 
" You'll see for yourself. One does see." 
" Chad's in love with the daughter ? " 
" That's what I mean." 
Strether wondered. " Then where's the difficulty ? " 
"Why, aren't you and I — with our grander, bolder 
ideas ? " 
" Oh, mine ! " Strether said rather strangely. But then 
as if to attentuate : " You mean they won't hear of Wool- 
lett?" 
Little Bilham smiled. " Isn't that just what you must 
see about ? " 
It had brought them, as she caught the last words, into 
relation with Miss Barrace, whom Strether had already 
observed — as he had never before seen a lady at a party — 
moving about alone. Coming within sound of them, she 
had already spoken, and she took again, through her 
long-handled glass, all her amused and amusing possession. 
" How much, poor Mr. Strether, you seem to have to see 
about ! But you can't say," she gaily declared, " that I 
don't do what I can to help you. Mr. Waymarsh is placed. 
I've left him in the house with Miss Gostrey." 
" The way," little Bilham exclaimed, " Mr. Strether gets 
the ladies to work for him ! He's just preparing to draw 
in another ; to pounce — don't you see him ? — on Mme. de 
Vionnet." 
"Mme. de Vionnet? Oh, oh, oh!" Miss Barrace cried 
in a wonderful crescendo. There was more in it, our 
friend made out, than met the ear. Was it, after all, a 
joke that he should be serious about anything? He envied 
Miss Barrace, at any rate, her power of not being. She 
seemed, with little cries and protests and quick recogni- 
tions, movements like the darts of some fine high-feathered, 
free-pecking bird, to stand before life as before some full 
shop-window. You could fairly hear, as she selected and 
pointed, the tap of her tortoise-shell against the glass. 
" It's certain that we do need seeing about ; only I'm glad 
it's not I who have to do it. One does, no doubt, begin 
that way ; then suddenly one finds that one has given it 
up. It's too much, it's too difficult. You're wonderful, 
you people," she continued to Strether, " for not feeling 
those things — by which I mean impossibilities. You never 
feel them. You face them with a fortitude that makes it 
a lesson to watch you." 
" Ah, but " — little Bilham put it with discouragement — 
"what do we achieve after all? We see about you and 
report — when we even go so far as reporting. But nothing's 
done." 
" Oh you, Mr. Bilham," she replied as with an impatient 
rap on the glass, "you're not worth sixpence! You come 
over to convert the savages — for I know you verily did, I 
remember you — and the savages simply convert you." 
" Not even ! " the young man wofully confessed ; " they 
haven't gone through that form. They've simply — the 
cannibals ! — eaten me ; converted me if you like, but converted me into food. I'm but the bleached bones of a 
Christian." 
"Well, then, there we are! Only" — and Miss Barrace 
appealed again to Strether — "don't let it discourage you. 
You'll break down soon enough, but you'll meanwhile 
have had your moments. Ilfaiit en avoir. I always like 
to see you while you last. And I'll tell you who will last." 
" Waymarsh ? " — he had already taken her up. 
She laughed out as at the alarm of it. " He'll resist 
even Miss Gostrey : so grand is it not to understand. He's 
wonderful." 
" He is, indeed," Strether conceded. " He wouldn't tell 
me of this affair — only said he had an engagement ; but 
with such a gloom, you must let me insist, as if it had 
been an engagement to be hanged. Then, silently and 
secretly, he turns up here with you. Do you call that 
'lasting'? " 
" Oh, I hope it's lasting ! " Miss Barrace said. " But he 
only, at the best, bears with me. He doesn't understand 
— not one little scrap. He's delightful. He's wonderful," 
she repeated. 
" Michelangelesque!" — little Bilham completed her mean- 
ing. " He is a success. Moses, on the ceiling, brought 
down to the floor ; overwhelming, colossal, but somehow 
portable." 
" Certainly, if you mean by portable," she returned, 
" looking so well in one's carriage. He's too funny beside 
me in his corner ; he looks like somebody — somebody 
foreign and famous, en exil ; so that people wonder — it's 
very amusing — whom I'm taking about. I show him 
Paris — show him everything, and he never turns a hair. 
He's like the Indian chief one reads about, who, when 
he comes up to Washington to see the Great Father, stands 
wrapped in his blanket and gives no sign. I might be the 
Great Father — from the way he takes everything." She 
was delighted at this hit of her identity with that personage 
— it fitted so her character ; she declared it was the title 
she meant henceforth to adopt. "And the way he sits, 
too, in the corner of my room, only looking at my visitors 
very hard and as if he wanted to start something ! They 
wonder what he does want to start. But he's wonderful," 
Miss Barrace once more insisted. " He has never started 
anything yet." 
It presented him none the less, in truth, to her actual 
friends, who looked at each other in intelligence, with frank 
amusement on Bilham's part and a shade of sadness on 
Strether's, Strether's sadness sprang — for the image had 
its grandeur — from his thinking how Httle he himself was 
wrapped in his blanket, how little, in marble halls, all too 
oblivious of the Great Father, he resembled a really 
majestic aboriginal. But he had also another reflection. 
" You've all of you here so much visual sense that you've 
somehow all 'run' to it. There are moments when it 
strikes one that you haven't any other." 
" Any moral," little Bilham explained, watching serenely, 
across the garden, the several femmes du vionde. " But 
Miss Barrace has a moral distinction," he kindly continued; 
speaking as if for Strether's benefit not less than for her 
own. 
" Have you ? " Strether, scarce knowing what he was 
about, asked of her almost eagerly. 
" Oh, not a distinction " — she was mightily amused at 
his tone — " Mr. Bilham is too good. But I think I may 
say a sufficiency. Yes, a sufficiency. Have you supposed 
strange things of me?" — and she fixed him again, through 
all her tortoise-shell, with the droll interest of it. " You 
are all indeed wonderful. I should awfully disappoint you. 
I do take my stand on my sufficiency. But I know, I 
confess," she went on, " strange people. I don't know how 
it happens ; I don't do it on purpose ; it seems to be my 
doom — as if I were always one of their habits ; it's wonder- 
ful ! I daresay, moreover," she pursued with an interested 
gravity, " that I do, that we all do here, run too much to 
mere eye. But how can it be helped ? We're all looking 
at each other — and in the light of Paris one sees what 
things resemble. That's what the light of Paris seems 
always to show. It's the fault of the light of Paris — dear 
old light ! " 
" Dear old Paris ! " little Bilham echoed. 
" Everything, everyone shows," Miss Barrace went on. 
" But for what they really are?" Strether asked. 
" Oh, I like your Boston 'reallys ' ! V w. sometimes — yes." 
" Dear old Paris then ! " Strether resignedly sighed, while 
for a moment they looked at each other. Then he broke 
out: "Does Mme. de Vionnet do that? I mean really 
show for what she is ? " 
Her answer was prompt. " She's charming. She's 
perfect." 
"Then why did you a minute ago say, 'Oh, oh, oh!' at 
her name?" 
She easily remembered. "Why, just because ! She's 
wonderful." 
" Ah, she too ? " — Strether had almost a groan. 
But Miss Barrace had meanwhile perceived relief. "Why 
not put your question straight to the person who can 
answer it best?" 
" No," said little Bilham ; "don't put any question ; wait, 
rather — it will be much more fun — to judge for yourself. 
He has come to take you to her." 
XI 
On which Strether saw that Chad was again at hand, and 
he afterwards scarce knew, absurd as it may seem, what 
had then quickly occurred. The moment concerned him, 
he felt, more deeply than he could have explained, and he 
had a subsequent passage of speculation as to whether, on 
walking off with Chad, he hadn't looked either pale or 
red. The only thing he was clear about was that, luckily, 
nothing indiscreet had in fact been said, and that Chad 
himself w as, more than ever, in Miss Barrace's great sense, 
wonderful. It was one of the connections — though really 
why it should be, after all, was none so apparent — in which 
the whole change in him came out as most striking. 
Strether recalled, as they approached the house, that he 
had impressed him that first night as knowing how to enter 
a box. Well, he impressed him scarce less now as knowing 
how to make a presentation. It did something for Strether's 
own quality — marked it as estimated ; so that our poor 
friend, conscious and passive, really seemed to feel himself 
quite handed over and delivered ; absolutely, as he would 
have said, made a present of, given away. As they reached 
the house a young woman, about to come forth, appeared, 
unaccompanied, on the steps ; at the exchange with whom 
of a word on Chad's part Strether immediately perceived 
that, obligingly, kindly, she was there to meet them. Chad 
had left her in the house, but she had afterwards come half- 
way and then, the next moment, had joined them in the 
garden. Her air of youth, for Strether, was at first almost 
disconcerting, while his second impression was, not less 
sharply, a degree of relief at there not having just been, 
with the others, any freedom used about her. it was upon 
him at a touch that she was no subject for that, and mean- 
while, on Chad's introducing him, she had spoken to him, 
very simply and gently, in an English clearly of the easiest 
to her, yet unlike any other he had ever heard. It wasn't 
as if she tried ; nothing, he could see after they had been 
a few minutes together, was as if she tried ; but her speech, 
charming, correct and odd, was like a precaution against 
her passing for a Pole. There were precautions, he seemed 
indeed to see, only when there were really dangers. 
Later on he was to feel many more of them ; but by 
that time he was to feel other things besides. She was 
dressed in black, but in black that struck him as light and 
transparent ; she was exceedingly fair, and, though she 
was as markedly slim, her face had a roundness, with eyes 
far apart and a little strange. Her smile was natural and 
dim ; her hat not extravagant ; he had only perhaps a 
sense of the clink, beneath her fine black sleeves, of more 
gold bracelets and bangles than he had ever seen a lady 
wear. Chad was excellently free and light about their 
encounter ; it was one of the occasions on which Strether 
most wished he himself might have arrived at such ease 
and such humour : " Here you are then, face to face at last ; 
you're made for each other — vous allez voir ; and I bless 
your union." It was indeed, after he had gone off, as if 
he had been partly serious too. This latter motion had 
been determined by an inquiry from him about " Jeanne " ; 
to which her mother had replied that she was probably 
still in the house with Miss Gostrey, to whom she had 
lately committed ' her. "Ah, but you know," the young 
man had rejoined, " he must see her " ; with which, while 
Strether pricked up his ears, he had started as if to bring 
her, leaving the other objects of his interest together. 
Strether wondered to find Miss Gostrey already involved, 
feeling that he missed a link ; but feeling also, with small 
delay, how much he should like to talk with her of Mme. 
de Vionnet on this basis of evidence. 
The evidence as yet, in truth, was meagre; which, for 
that matter, was perhaps a little why his expectation had 
had a drop. There was somehow not a wealth in her ; 
and a wealth was all that, in his simplicity, he had 
definitely prefigured. Still, it was too much to be sure 
already that there was but a poverty. They moved away 
from the house, and, with eyes on a bench at some 
distance, he proposed tliat they should sit down. " I've 
heard a great deal about you," she said as they went; but 
he had an answer to it that made her stop short. " Well, 
About you, Mme. de Vionnet, I've heard, I'm bound to say, 
almost nothing" — those struck him as the only words he 
himself could, with any lucidity, utter ; conscious as he 
was, and as with more reason, of the determination to be, 
in respect to the rest of his business, perfectly plain and 
go perfectly straight. It had not at any rate been in the 
least his idea to spy on Chad's proper freedom. It was 
possibly, however, at this very instant and under the 
impression of Mme. de Vionnet's pause, that going 
straight began to announce itself as a matter for care. 
She had only, after all, to smile at him ever so gently to 
make him ask himself if he weren't already going crooked. 
It might be going crooked to find it of a sudden just only 
clear that she intended very definitely to be what he would 
have called nice to him. This was what passed between 
them while, for another instant, they stood still ; he 
couldn't at least remember afterwards what else it might 
have been. The thing indeed really unmistakable was 
that it rolled over him as a wave that he had been, in 
conditions incalculable and unimaginable, a subject of 
discussion. He had been on some ground that concerned 
her, answered for ; which gave her an advantage he should 
never be able to match. 
" Hasn't Miss Gostrey," she asked, " said a good word 
for me ? " 
What had struck him first was the way he was bracketed 
with that lady; and he wondered what account Chad 
would have given of their acquaintance. Something not 
as yet traceable, at all events, had obviously happened. 
" I didn't even know of her knowing you." 
"Well, now she'll tell you all. I'm so glad you're in 
relation with her." 
This was one of the things — the "all" Miss Gostrey 
would now tell him — that, with every deference to present 
preoccupation, was uppermost for Strether after they had 
taken their seat. One of the others was, at the end of five 
minutes, that she — oh, incontestably, yes — dijfercci less ; 
differed, that is, scarcely at all — well, superficially speaking, 
from Mrs. Newsome or even from Mrs. Pocock. She was 
ever so much younger than the one and not so young as 
the other ; but what was there in her, if anything, that 
would have made it impossible he should meet her at 
WooUett ? And wherein was her talk, during their 
moments on the bench together, not the same as would 
have been found adequate for a Woollett garden-party ? — 
unless perhaps, truly, in not being quite so bright. She 
observed to him that Mr. Newsome had, to her knowledge, 
taken extraordinary pleasure in his visit ; but there was no 
good lady at Woollett who wouldn't have been at least up 
to that. Was there in Chad, by chance, after all, deep 
down, a principle of aboriginal loyalty that had made him, 
for sentimental ends, attach himself to elements, happily 
encountered, that would remind him most of the old air 
and the old soil ? Why, accordingly, be in a flutter — 
Strether could even put it that way — about this unfamiliar 
phenomenon of the femine du vionde ? On these terms 
Mrs. Newsome herself was as much of one. Little Bilham, 
verily, had testified that they came out, the ladies of the 
type, in close quarters ; but it was just in these quarters — 
now comparatively close — that he felt Mme. de Vionnet's 
common humanity. She did come out, and certainly to 
his relief, but she came out as the usual thing. There 
might be motives behind, but so could there often be even 
at Woollett. The only thing was that if she showed him 
she wished to like him — as the motives behind might 
conceivably prompt — it would possibly have been more 
thrilling for him that she should have shown as more vividly 
alien. Ah, she was neither Turk nor Pole! — which would be 
indeed flat, once more, for Mrs. Newsome and Mrs. Pocock. 
A lady and two gentlemen had meanwhile, however, 
approached their bench, and this accident stayed for the 
time further developments. 
They presently addressed his companion, the brilliant 
strangers ; she rose to speak to them, and Strether noted 
that the escorted lady, though mature and by no means 
beautiful, had more of the bold, high look, the range of 
expensive reference, that he had, as might have been said, 
made his plans for. Mme. de Vionnet greeted her as 
" Duchesse" and was greeted in turn, while talk started in 
French, as Ma toutc-bellc ; little facts that had their due, their 
vivid interest for Strether. Mine, de Vionnet didn't, none the 
less, introduce him — a note he was conscious of as false to 
the VVoollett scale and the Woollett humanity ; though 
it didn't prevent the Duchess, who struck him as confi- 
dent and free, very much what he had obscurely supposed 
duchesses, from looking at him as straight and as hard — 
for it was hard — as if she would have liked, all the same, 
to know him. " Oh yes, my dear, it's all right, it's ine ; and 
who diveyou, with your interesting wrinkles and your most 
effective (is it the handsomest, is it the ugliest of noses )? " 
— some such loose handful of bright flowers she seemed, 
fragrantly enough, to fling at him. Strether almost won- 
dered — at such a pace was he going — if some divination 
of the influence of either party were what determined 
Mme. de Vionnet's abstention. One of the gentlemen, in 
any case, succeeded in placing himself in close relation 
with our friend's companion ; a gentleman rather stout and 
not very tall, in a hat with a wonderful wide curl to its 
brim and a frock coat buttoned with an effect of super- 
lative decision. His French had quickly turned to equal 
English, and it occurred to Strether that he might well be 
one of the ambassadors. His design was evidently to 
assert a claim to Mme. de Vionnet's undivided counten- 
ance, and he made it good in the course of a minute — led 
her away with a trick of three words ; a trick played with 
a social art of which Strether, looking after them as the 
four, whose backs were now all turned, moved off, felt 
himself no master. 
He sank again upon his bench and, while his eyes 
lowed the party, reflected, as he had done before, on 
  iiad's strange communities. He sat there alone for five 
minutes, with plenty to think of; above all with his sense 
of having suddenly been dropped by a charming woman 
overlaid now by other impressions and in fact quite 
cleared and indifferent. He had not yet had so quiet a 
surrender ; he didn't in the least care if nobody spoke to 
him more. He might have been, by his attitude, in for 
something of a march so broad that the want of ceremony 
with which he had just been used could fall into its place 
but a minor incident of the procession. Besides, there 
'uld be incidents enough, as he felt when this term of 
contemplation was closed by the reappearance of little 
Bilham, who stood before him a moment with a suggestive 
" Well ? " in which he saw himself reflected as disorganised, 
as possibly floored. He replied with a " Well ! " intended 
to show that he was not floored in the least. No indeed ; 
he gave it out, as the young man sat down beside him, that 
if, at the worst, he had been overturned at all, he had been ' 
overturned into the upper air, the sublimer element with ; 
which he had an affinity and in which he might be trusted 
awhile to float. It was not a descent to earth to say, ' 
after an instant, in sustained response to the allusion : I 
'' You're quite sure her husband's living?" 
" Oh dear, yes."   
" Ah then ! " I 
" Ah then what ? "   
Strether had, after all, to think. " Well, I'm sorry for  
them." 
But it didn't matter, for the moment, more than that, 
He assured his young friend he was quite content. They   
wouldn't stir ; were all right as they were. He didn't   
want to be introduced ; had been introduced already H 
about as far as he could go. He had seen, moreover, an 
immensity ; liked Gloriani, who, as Miss Barrace kept 
saying, was wonderful ; had made out, he was sure, the 
half-dozen other men who were distinguished, the artists, 
the critics, and, oh, the great dramatist — lim it was easy to 
spot ; but wanted — no, thanks, really — to talk with none 
of them ; having nothmg at all to say and finding it would 
do beautifully as it was ; do beautifully because what it 
was — well, was just simply too late. And when, after this, 
little Bilham, submissive and responsive, but with an eye to 
the consolation nearest, easily threw off some " Better 
late than never ! " all he got in return for it was a sharp 
" Better early than late ! " This note, indeed, the next 
thing, overflowed, for Strether, into a quiet stream of 
demonstration that, as soon as he had let himself go, he 
felt as the real relief. It had consciously gathered to a   
head, but the reservoir had filled sooner than he knew, and 
his companion's touch was to make the waters spread. 
There were some things that had to come in time if they 
were to come at all. If they didn't come in time they ; 
were lost forever. It was the general sense of them that 
had overwhelmed him with its long, slow rush. 
" It's not too late for you on any side, and you don't 
strike me as in danger of missing the train ; besides which 
people can be in general pretty well trusted, of course — 
with the clock of their freedom ticking as loud as it seems 
to do here — to keep an eye on the fleeting hour. All the 
same, don't forget that you're young — blessedly young ; be 
glad of it, on the contrary, and live up to it. Live all you 
can ; it's a mistake not to. It doesn't so much matter 
what you do in particular, so long as you have your life. 
If you haven't had that, what have you had ? This place 
and these impressions — mild as you may find them to 
wind a man up so ; all my impressions of Chad and of 
people I've seen at his place — well, have had their abun- 
dant message for me, have just dropped that into my 
mind. I see it now. I haven't done so enough before — 
and now I'm old ; too old at any rate for what I see. Oh, 
I do see, at least ; and more than you'd believe or I can 
express. It's too late. And it's as if the train had fairly 
waited at the station for me without my having had the 
gumption to know it was there. Now I hear its faint, re- 
ceding whistle miles and miles down the line. What one 
loses one loses ; make no mistake about that. The affair — 
I mean the affair of life — couldn't, no doubt, have been 
different for me ; for it's at the best, a tin mould, either 
fluted and embossed, with ornamental excrescences, or else 
i smooth and dreadfully plain, into which, a helpless jelly, 
i one's consciousness is poured — s(T that one ' takes ' the 
form, as the great cook says, and is more or less compactly 
1 held by it : one lives, in fine, as one can. Still, one has 
the illusion of freedom ; therefore don't be, like me, 
1 without the memory of that illusion. I was either, at the 
I right time, too stupid or too intelligent to have it ; I don't 
quite know which. Of course, at present, I'm a case of 
reaction against the mistake ; and the voice of reaction 
should, no doubt, always be taken with an allowance. But 
that doesn't affect the point that the right time is now 
yours. The right time is any time that one is still so lucky 
as to have. You've plenty ; that's the great thing ; you're, 
as I say, damn you, so happily and hatefully young. 
Don't, at any rate, miss things out of stupidity. Of course 
I don't take you for a fool, or I shouldn't be addressing you 
thus awfully. Do what you like so long as you don't 
make my mistake. For it was a mistake. Live ! " . . . 
Slowly and sociably, with full pauses and straight dashes, 
Strether had so delivered himself; holding little Bilham, 
from step to step, deeply and gravely attentive. The end 
of all was that the young man had turned quite solemn, 
and that this was a contradiction of the innocent gaiety 
the speaker had wished to promote. He watched for a 
moment the consequence of his words, and then, laying a 
hand on his listener's knee and as if to end, properly, with 
a joke : " And now for the eye I shall keep on you ! " 
" Oh, but I don't know that I want to be, at your age, 
too different from you !" 
" Ah, prepare, while you're about it," Strether said, " to 
be more amusing." 
Little Bilham continued to think ; then at last he had a 
smile. " Well, you at-e amusing — to meP 
" Impayable, as you say, no doubt. But what am I to my- 
self? " Strether had risen with this, giving his attention now 
to an encounter that, in the middle of the garden, was in the 
act of taking place between their host and the lady at whose 
side Mme. de Vionnet had quitted him. This lady, who 
appeared within a few minutes to have left her friends, 
awaited Gloriani's eager approach with words on her lips 
that Strether couldn't catch, but of which her interesting, 
witty face seemed to give him the echo. He was sure she 
was prompt and fine, but also that she had met her match, 
and. he liked — in the light of what he was quite sure was 
the Duchess's latent insolence— the good humour with 
which the great artist asserted equal resources. Were 
they, this pair, of the " great world " .- — and was he himself, 
for the moment, thus related to them by his observation, 
in it? Then there was something in the great world 
covertly tigerish, which came to him, across the lawn, in 
the charming air, as a waft from the jungle. Yet it made 
him admire most of the two, made him envy, the glossy 
male tiger, magnificently marked. These absurdities of 
the stirred sense, fruits of suggestion, ripening on the 
instant, were all reflected in his next words to little Bilhank" 
" I know — if we talk of that — whom I should enjoy being 
like!" 
Little Bilham followed his eyes ; but then, as if with a 
shade of knowing surprise : " Gloriani ? " 
Our friend had in fact already hesitated, though not on 
the hint of his companion's doubt, in which there were 
depths of critical reserve. He had just made out, in the 
now full picture, something and somebody else ; another 
impression had been superimposed. A young girl in a 
white dress and a softly plumed white hat had suddenly 
come into view, and what was next clear was that her 
course was toward them. What was clearer still was that 
the handsome young man at her side was Chad Newsome, 
and what was clearest of all was that she was therefore 
Mile, de Vionnet, that she was unmistakably pretty — bright, 
gentle, shy, happy, wonderful — and that Chad now, with a 
consummate calculation of effect, was about to present her 
to his old friend's vision. What was clearest of all indeed 
was something much more than this, something at the 
single stroke of which — and wasn't it simply juxtaposition? 
— all vagueness vanished. It was the click of a spring — 
he saw the truth. He had by this time also met Chad's 
look ; there was more of it in that ; and the truth, accord- 
ingly, so far as Bilham's inquiry was concerned, had thrust 
in the answer. "Oh, Chad!" — it was that rare youth he 
should have enjoyed being " like." The virtuous attach- 
ment would be all there before him ; the virtuous attachment 
would be in the very act of appeal for his blessing ; Jeanne 
de Vionnet, this charming creature, would be — exquisitely, 
intensely now — the object of it. Chad brought her straight 
up to him, and Chad was, oh yes, at this moment — for the 
glory of Woollett or whatever — better still even than 
Gloriani. He had plucked this blossom ; he had kept it, 
overnight, in water ; and at last, as he held it up to wonder, 
he did enjoy his effect. That was why Strether had felt at 
first the breath of calculation — and why, moreover, as he 
now knew, his look at the girl would be, for the young 
man, a sign of the latter's success. What young man had 
ever paraded about that way, without a reason, a maiden 
in her flower? And there was nothing in his reason at 
present obscure. Her type sufficiently told of it — they 
wouldn't want her to go to Woollett. Poor WooUett, and 
what it might miss ? — though brave Chad indeed, too, and 
what it might gain ! Brave Chad, however, had just ex- 
cellently spoken. " This is a good little friend of mine 
who knows all about you, and has, moreover, a message for 
you. And this, my dear " — he had turned to the child her- 
self — " is the best man in the world, who has it in his power 
to do a great deal for us, and whom I want you to like and 
revere as nearly as possible as much as I do." 
She stood there quite pink, a little frightened, prettier 
and prettier and not a bit like her mother. There was in 
this last particular no resemblance but that of youth to 
youth ; and here in fact, suddenly, was Strether's sharpest 
impression. It went wondering, dazed, embarrassed, back 
to the woman he had just been talking with ; it was a 
revelation in the light of which he already saw she would 
become more interesting. So slim and fresh and fair, she 
had yet put forth this perfection ; so that for really believ- 
ing it of her, for seeing her to any such developed degree 
as a mother, comparison would be urgent. Well, what 
was it now but fairly thrust upon him ? " Mamma wishes 
me to tell you before we go," the girl said, " that she hopes 
very much you'll come to see us very soon. She has some- 
thing particular to say to you." 
" She quite reproaches herself," Chad helpfully explained ; 
"you were interesting her so much when she accidentally 
suffered you to be interrupted." 
" Ah, don't mention it ! " Strether murmured, looking 
kindly from one to the other and wondering at many 
things. 
" And I'm to ask you for myself," Jeanne continued with 
her hands clasped together as if in some small learnt 
prayer — " I'm to ask you for myself if you won't positively 
come." 
"Leave it to me, dear — I'll take care of it!" Chad 
genially declared in answer to this, while Strether himself 
almost held his breath. What was in the girl was indeed 
too soft, too unknown for direct dealing ; so that one 
could only gaze at it as at a picture, quite staying one's 
own hand. But with Chad he was now on ground — Chad 
he could meet; so pleasant a confidence in that and in 
everything did the young man freely exhale. There was 
the whole of a story in his tone to his companion, and he 
spoke indeed as if already of the family. It made Strether 
guess the more quickly what it might be about which 
Mme. de Vionnet was "particular." Having seen him, 
then, she had found him easy ; she wished to have it out 
with him that some way for the young people must be 
discovered, some way that would not impose as a con- 
dition the transplantation of her daughter. He already 
saw himself discussing with this lady the attractions of 
Woollett as a residence for Chad's companion. Was that 
youth going now to trust her with the affair — so that it 
would be after all with one of his "lady-friends" that his 
mother's missionary should be condemned to deal ? It 
was quite as if for an instant the two men looked at each 
other on this question. But there was no mistaking at 
last Chad's pride in the display of such a connection. 
This was what had made him so carry himself while, 
three minutes before, he was bringing it into view ; what 
had caused his friend, first catching sight of him, to be so 
struck with his air. It was, in a word, just when he thus 
finally felt Chad putting things straight off on him that he 
envied him, as he had mentioned to little Bilham, most. 
The whole exhibition, however, was but a matter of three 
or four minutes, and the author of it had soon explained 
that, as Mme. de Vionnet was immediately going "on," 
this could be for Jeanne but a snatch. They would all 
meet again soon, and Strether was meanwhile to stay and 
amuse himself — " I'll pick you up again in plenty of time." 
He took the girl off as he had brought her, and Strether, 
with the faint, sweet foreignness of her '' Au revoii mon- 
sieur!" in his ears as a note almost unprecedented, watched 
them recede side by side and felt how, once more, her 
companion's relation to her got an accent from it. They 
disappeared among the others and apparently into the 
house ; whereupon our friend turned round to give out to 
little Bilham the conviction of which he was full. But 
there was no little Bilham any more; little Bilham had, 
within the few moments, for reasons of his own, proceeded 
further : a circumstance by which, in its order, Strether was 
also sensibly affected. 
XII 
Chad was not in fact, on this occasion, to keep his 
promise of coming back ; but Miss Gostrey had soon 
presented herseh  with an explanation of his failure. 
There had been reasons, at the last, for his going off with 
ces dames ; and he had asked her, with much instance, to 
come out and take charge of their friend. She did so, 
Strether felt as she took her place beside him, in a manner 
that left nothing to desire. He had dropped back on his 
bench, alone again for a time, and the more conscious, for 
little Bilham's defection, of his unexpressed thought, in 
respect to which, however, this next interlocutor was a 
still more capacious vessel. " It's the child ! " he had ex- 
claimed to her almost as soon as she appeared ; and though 
her direct response was for some time delayed, he could 
feel in her meanwhile the working of this truth. It might 
have been simply, as she waited, that they were now in 
presence, altogether, of truth spreading like a flood and 
not, for the moment, to be offered her in the mere cupful ; 
inasmuch as who should ces dames prove to be but persons 
about whom — once thus face to face with them — she found 
she might from the first have told him almost everything ? 
This would have freely come had he taken the simple 
precaution of giving her their name. There could be no 
better example — and she appeared to note it with high 
amusement — than the way, making things out already so 
much for himself, he was at last throwing precautions to 
the winds. They were neither more nor less, she and the 
child's mother, than old school-friends — friends who had 
scarcely met for years, but whom this unlooked-for chance 
had brought together with a rush. It was a relief, Miss 
Gostrey hinted, to feel herself no longer groping ; she was 
unaccustomed to grope and, as a general thing, he might 
well have seen, made straight enough for her clue. With 
the one she had now picked up in her hands there need be 
at least no waste of wonder. " She's coming to see me — 
that's (or you," Strether's interlocutress continued; "but I 
don't require it to know where I am." 
The waste of wonder might be proscribed, but Strether, 
characteristically, was even by this time quite in the air. 
" By which you mean that you know where she is ? " 
She just hesitated. " I mean that if she comes to see 
me I shall — now that I've pulled myself round a bit after 
the shock — not be at home." 
Strether hung poised. " You call it — your recognition — 
a shock ? " 
She gave one of her rare flickers of impatience. " It was 
a surprise, an emotion. Don't be so literal. I wash my 
hands of her." 
Poor Strether's face lengthened. "She's impossible ?" 
" She's even more charming than I remembered her." 
" Then what's the matter ? " 
She had to think how to put it. " Well, it's  impossible. 
It's impossible. Everything's impossible." 
He looked at her an instant. " I see where you're 
coming out. Everything's possible." Their eyes had on 
it, in fact, an exchange of some duration, after which he 
pursued: "Isn't it that beautiful child?" Then, as she 
still said nothing : " Why don't you mean to receive 
her ? " 
Her answer in an instant rang clear. " Because I wish 
to keep out of the business." 
It provoked in him a small wail. "You're going to 
abandon me nozv ? " 
" No, I'm only going to abandon her. She'll want me 
to help her with you. And I won't." 
" You'll only help me with her? Well, then ! " 
Most of the persons previously gathered had, in the in- 
terest of tea, passed into the house, and they had the 
gardens mainly to themselves. The shadows were long, 
the last call of the birds, who had made a home of their 
own in the noble, Jnterspaced quarter, sounded from the 
high trees in the Qtjier gardens as well, those of the old 
convent and of the old hotels ; it was as if our friends had 
waited for the full charm to come out. Strether's im- 
pressions were still present ; it was as if something had 
happened that " nailed " them, made them more intense ; 
but he was to ask himself soon afterwards, that evening, 
what really had happened — conscious as he could remain, 
after all, that, for a gentleman taken for the first time into 
the " great " world, the world of ambassadors and duch- 
esses, the items made a meagre total. It was nothing new 
to him, however, as we know, that a man might have — 
at all events such a man as he was — an amount of ex- 
perience out of any proportion to his adventures ; so that, 
though it was doubtless no great adventure to sit on there 
with Miss Gostrey and hear about Mme, de Vionnet, 
the hour, the picture, the immediate, the recent, the possible 
— as well as the communication itself, not a note of which 
failed to reverberate — only gave the moments more of the 
taste of history. 
It was history, to begin with, that Jeanne's mother 
had been, three-and-twenty years before, at Geneva, school- 
mate and good girl-friend to Maria Gostrey, who had, 
moreover, enjoyed since then, though interruptedly and, 
above all, with a long, recent drop, other glimpses of her. 
Twenty-three years put them both on, no doubt ; and 
Mme. de Vionnet, though she had married straight after 
school, couldn't be to-day an hour less than thirty-eight. 
This made her ten years older than Chad — though ten 
years, also, if Strether liked, older than she looked ; the 
least, at any rate, that a prospective mother-in-law could 
be expected to do with. She would be of all mothers-in- 
law the most charming ; unless, indeed, through some 
perversity as yet insupposable, she should utterly belie 
herself in that relation. There was none, surely, in which, 
as Maria remembered her, she mustn't be charming ; and 
this, frankly, in spite of the stigma of failure in the tie 
in which failure always most showed. It was no test there 
— when, indeed, was it a test there? — for M. de Vionnet 
had been a brute. She had lived for years apart from him 
— which was, of course, always a horrid position ; but Miss 
Gostrey's impression of the matter had been that she could 
scarce have made a better thing of it had she done it on 
purpose to show that she was amiable. She was so 
amiable that nobody had had a word to say, which was 
 
luckily not the case for her husband. He was so im- 
possible that she had the advantage of all her merits. 
It was still history for Strether that the Comte de 
Vionnet — it being also history that the lady in question 
was a countess — should now, under Miss Gostrey's sharp 
touch, rise before him as a high, distinguished, polished, 
impertinent reprobate, the product of a mysterious order ; 
it was history, further, that the charming girl, so freely 
sketched by his companion, should have been married, out 
of hand, by a mother, another figure of striking outline, full 
of dark personal motive ; it was perhaps history most of 
all that this company was, as a matter of course, governed 
by such considerations as put divorce out of the question. 
" Ces gens-id don't divorce, you know, any more than they 
emigrate or abjure — they think it impious and vulgar" ; a 
fact in the light of which they seemed but the more richly 
special. It was all special ; it was all, for Strether's 
imagination, more or less rich. The girl at the Genevese 
school, an isolated, interesting, attaching creature, both 
sensitive, then, and violent, audacious but always forgiven, 
was the daughter of a French father and an English 
mother, who, early left a widow, had married again, had 
another try with a foreigner ; in her career with whom she 
had apparently given her child no example of comfort. 
All these people — the people of the English mother's side 
— had been of condition more or less eminent ; yet with 
oddities and disparities that had often since made Maria, 
thinking them over, wonder what they really quite rhymed 
to. It was, in any case, her belief that the mother, interested and prone to adventure, had been without conscience, had only thought of ridding herself most quickly 
of a possible, an actual encumbrance. The father, by her 
impression, a Frenchman with a name that "sounded," had 
been another matter, leaving his child, she clearly recalled, 
a memory all fondness, as well as an assured little fortune, 
which was, unluckily, later on to make her more or less 
of a prey. She had been, in particular, at school dazzlingly, 
though quite booklessly clever ; as polyglot as a little 
Jewess (which she wasn't, oh, no !) and chattering French, 
English, German, Italian, anything one would, in a way 
that made a clean sweep, if not of prizes and parchments. 
at least of every " part," whether memorised or improvised, 
in the curtained, costumed, school repertory, and, in es- 
pecial, of all mysteries of race and vagueness of reference, 
all swagger about " home," among their variegated mates. 
It would doubtless be difficult to-day, as between French 
and English, to label her and place her; she would certainly 
show, on knowledge. Miss Gostrey felt, as one of those 
convenient types who didn't keep you explaining — minds 
with doors as numerous as the many-tongued cluster of 
confessionals at St. Peter's. You might confess to her 
with confidence in Roumelian, and even Roumelian sins. 
Therefore ! But Strether's narrator covered her im- 
plication with a laugh ; a laugh by which his betrayal of a 
sense of the lurid in the picture was also perhaps sufficiently 
protected. He had a moment of wondering, while his 
friend went on, what sins might be especially Roumelian. 
She went on, at all events, to the mention of her having 
met the young thing — again by some Swiss lake — in her 
first married state, which had appeared for the few inter- 
mediate years not at least violently disturbed. She had 
been lovely at that moment, delightful to her, full o1 
responsive emotion, of amused recognitions and amusing 
reminders; and then once more, much later, after a long 
interval, equally but differently charming — touching and 
rather mystifying for the fiv e minutes of an encounter at s 
railway station en province, during which it had come out 
that her life was all changed. Miss Gostrey had under- 
stood enough to see, essentially, what had happened, and 
yet had beautifully dreamed that she was herself faultless 
There were doubtless depths in her, but she was all right 
Strether would see if she wasn't. She was another person 
however — that had been promptly marked — from the smal 
child of nature at the Geneva school ; a little persoi 
quite made over — as foreign women luere, compared with 
American — by marriage. Her situation moreover, evidently 
had cleared itself up ; there would have been — all that wa: 
possible — a judicial separation. She had settled in Paris 
brought up her daughter, steered her boat. It was no ver; 
pleasant boat, especially there, to be in ; but Marie d« 
Vionnet would have headed straight. She would have 
friends, certainly, and very good ones. There she was, a 
all events — and it was very interesting. Her knowing Mr. 
Chad didn't in the least prove she hadn't friends ; what it 
proved was what good ones he had. " I saw that," said 
Miss Gostrey, " that night at the Frangais ; it came out for 
me in three minutes. I saw her — or somebody like her. 
And so," she immediately added, " did you." 
"Oh, no; not anybody like her!" Strether laughed. 
" But you mean," he as promptly went on, " that she has 
had such an influence on him?" 
Miss Gostrey was on her feet ; it was time for them to 
go. " She has brought him up for her daughter." 
Their eyes, as so often, in candid conference, through 
their settled glasses, met over it long; after which Strether's 
again took in the whole place. They were quite alone 
there now. " Mustn't she rather — in the time then — have 
rushed it ? " 
" Ah, she won't, of course, have lost an hour. But that's 
just the good mother — the good French one. You must 
remember that of her — that, as a mother, she's French ; 
and that for them there's a special providence. It precisely, 
however — that she may not have been able to begin as far 
back as she would have liked — makes her grateful for aid." 
Strether took this in as they slowly moved to the house 
on their way out. " She counts on me then to put the 
thing through ? " 
" Yes ; she counts on you. Oh, and first of all, of course," 
Miss Gostrey added, "on her — well, convincing you." 
" Ah," her friend returned, " she caught Chad young ! " 
" Yes, but there are women who are for all ages. They're 
the most wonderful sort." 
She had laughed the words out, but they brought her 
companion, the next thing, to a stand. " Is what you mean 
that she'll try to make a fool of me? " 
"Well, I'm wondering what she zvill — with an opportunity 
— make." 
"What do you call," Strether asked, "an opportunity.  
My going to see her ? " 
" Ah, you must go to see her." Miss Gostrey v.as a trifle 
evasive. " You can't not do that. You'd have gone to 
see the other woman. I mean if there had been one — a 
different sort. It's what you came out for." 
It might be ; but Strether distinguished. " I didn't come 
out to see this sort." 
She had a wonderful look at him now. " Are you dis- 
appointed she isn't worse ? " 
He for a moment entertained the question, then found 
for it the frankest of answers. "Yes. If she were worse 
she would be better for our purpose. It would be simpler." 
"Perhaps," she admitted. " But won't this be pleasanter?" 
" Ah, you know," he promptly replied, " I didn't come 
out — wasn't that just what you originally reproached me 
with ? — for the pleasant." 
" Precisely. Therefore I say again what I said at first. 
You must take things as they come. Besides," Miss 
Gostrey added, " I'm not afraid for myself." 
" For yourself ? " 
" Of your seeing her. I trust her. There's nothing 
she'll say about me. In fact there's nothing she can!' 
Strether wondered — little as he had thought of this. 
Then he broke out. " Oh, you women ! " 
There was something in it at which she flushed. " Yes — 
there we are. We're abysses." At last she smiled. " But 
I risk her ! " 
He gave himself a shake. "Well then, so do I !" But 
he added as they passed into the house that he would see 
Chad the first thing in the morning. 
This was, the next day, the more easily effected that the 
young man, as it happened, even before he was down, 
turned up at his hotel. Strether took his coffee, by habit, 
in the public room ; but on his descending for this purpose 
Chad instantly proposed an adjournment to what he called 
greater privacy. He had himself, as yet, had nothing — 
they would sit down somewhere together; and when, after 
a few steps and a turn into the boulevard, they had, for 
their greater privacy, sat down among twenty others, our 
friend saw in his companion's move a fear of the advent of 
Waymarsh. It was the first time Chad had, to that extent, 
given this personage "away" ; and Strether found himself 
wondering of what it was symptomatic. He made out in a 
moment that the youth was in earnest as he had not yet 
seen him ; which, in its turn, threw a ray perhaps a trifle 
startling on what they had each, up to that time, been 
treating as earnestness. It was sufficiently flattering, how- 
ever, that the real thing — if this zuas at last the real 
thing — should have been determined, as appeared, pre- 
cisely by an accretion of Strether's importance. For this 
was what, quickly enough, it came to — that Chad, rising 
