"Oh, well, so, so. Mr. Warfield seemed very proud of his pupils. Yes,
the singing was good. Harry Lane had the 'Surrender of Cornwallis', and
it was just fine."
Father and Sam and the hired man came in. The two children straggled
along, and Helen had to wash them, but presently they were all ranged
about the table.
"Well, how did it go?" Uncle Jason asked, looking up as Helen finally
took her place after doing Aunt Jane's bidding several times.
"Oh, it was splendid!" A thrill of delight swept over Helen as she met
the good-humored eyes. "And I have a diploma."
"And did you carry the house by storm, or did you forget two lines in
the most important place?" asked Sam, mischievously. "Dan Erlick is
going to the High School in the fall. Are you?"
"O, I wish I could," cried Helen, eagerly, with a beseeching glance at
her uncle. Occasionally he did decide matters.
"Well, I declare!" Aunt Jane threw back her head with her fork poised
half way to her mouth, "And I dare say you'd like to go over to Europe,
too!"
"I just should," said Helen with a good natured accent. "There are a
great many things I should like to do."
"Where's the money coming from to do 'em?"
"I hope to earn it. I should like to teach, and Mr. Warfield thinks I
ought."
"And follow in your father's steps."
Helen's face was scarlet.
"You just won't go to any High School, I can tell you," began her aunt
in an arbitrary tone. "You'd look fine walking in three mile and out
again every day. Who'd keep you in shoes? Or did you think you'd take
the horse and wagon? You're learning enough for the kind of life you're
likely to lead, and there are other things to do."
"And I'll tell you one of them, Nell," said Jenny with a rough comfort
in her tone. "There will be three vacancies in the factory come
September, and you better take one of them. Now I haven't been there but
little more than two years, and take up my twelve dollars every two
weeks. The work isn't hard. I almost think I'm a fool to get married
quite so soon, only Joe does need a housekeeper, and will have the house
all fixed up--and doesn't want to wait;" laughingly.
"Joe's a nice fellow," said her mother, "and well to do. And you didn't
go to any High School, either."
Mrs. Mulford took great pride in her daughter's prospects, though when
Joe Northrup first began to "wait on her," she said: "I don't see how
you'll ever get along with old lady Northrup, and Joe won't leave his
mother."
"I aint in any hurry," returned Jenny. "Joe's a good catch and worth
waiting for."
In March Mrs. Northrup began to clean house and took a bad cold, and a
month later was buried. Quite a sum of ready money came to Joe, and he
built on a parlor room, a new wide porch, papered and painted, and Jenny
felt not a little elated at her good luck. She had been steadily at work
preparing for her new home, improving evenings and odd hours, for she
was an industrious girl, and she declared Mrs. Northrup's old things
would be a "disgrace to the folks on the ridge." These were the poorest
and most inelegant people at the Center, and had somehow herded
together.
"Yes, that will be a good thing for Helen," said Aunt Jane. "She's old
enough to do something to earn her way. And you'll want everything new
this winter, you've grown so. And if you have had any idee of High
Schools and that folderol, you may just get it out of your head at once.
If you'd a fortune it would be more to the purpose, but a girl----"
"It would be too far for her to walk," said Uncle Jason, warding off a
reference to her father as he saw tears in Helen's eyes. "Mother, this
is a tip-top potpie. You do beat the Dutch!"
"And I never went to school a day after I was twelve. I've kept a house
and helped save and had six children of my own and Helen, and none of
'em have gone in rags. And there's Kate Weston, who's secretary of
something over to North Hope, and who paints on chiny, and see what a
house she keeps!"
"You can have lots of learning, and if it isn't of the right sort it
won't do you much good," said Jenny sententiously. "There's a girl in
the factory who was at boarding school two years. She's twenty and she
never earns over four dollars a week, and if I didn't know more than she
does--well I'd go in a convent!"
Some other topics came up, and after dinner Sam went to milk, the hired
man to care for the stock, Aunt Jane took the big rocking chair and
settled herself to a few winks of sleep, as was her custom, and the
walk of to-day had fatigued her more than usual. Helen and 'Reely
cleared the table. Jenny sat down to the sewing machine and hemmed yards
of ruffling for her various purposes. Then Helen put Fan and little Tom
to bed, and sat a while out on the porch, thinking, strangely sore at
heart.
She had not considered the subject seriously. It had been an ardent
desire to go on studying. She had just reached the place where knowledge
was fascinating to a girl of her temperament. Mr. Warfield had roused
the best in her and she had, as it were, skipped over the years and seen
herself just where she would like to be, able to travel, to make
friends, to have books and the pictures she loved. She had not seen many
that she cared for, until one day Mr. Warfield brought a portfolio of
prints he admired, and she was so touched that she sat in a breathless
thrill of joy with her eyes full of tears.
"Oh, I did not know there were such beautiful things in the world," she
said with a sob in her breath. "And that people could really make them!
How wonderful it must be to do something the whole world can enjoy."
He smiled kindly. "The world is large," he replied, "and if only a
little circle commends us, that must satisfy the most of us. And perhaps
you know people who would rather have a bright chromo of fruit or
flowers than all of these."
"Yes," she admitted with a flush.
"But in everything it is worth while to try to come up to the best
within us."
This sentence lingered in her mind. But she was a very busy girl for the
next two weeks, for there was a good deal to do at home. Then she was
not old enough to have outgrown play. Girls really played in country
places round about.
But some new thing was growing up within her. There comes a dividing
line in many lives when the soul awakens and reaches up and seems
suddenly to sweep past the old things, just as the bud pushes out of its
sheath that then becomes a dry husk. So many desires crept up to the
light. Study, languages, histories of men and women, and deeds that had
changed the aspect of the world. Travel, a life of her own in which she
was first, not in any selfish fashion, but to have things peculiarly her
own, the things that appealed to her, not other people's ideas of what
was best for you. She had had some of Jenny's frocks made over for her,
and had been wearing Jenny's coat all winter. Aurelia was too small to
make these changes economical, and Mrs. Mulford was one of the thrifty
kind that believed in putting everything to the best use. Yet Helen
longed for the time when second-hand clothes and ideas were no longer
forced upon you, but you could come into some of your very own.
She thought she would go up to her own room and have a good cry. Just as
she reached the door Aunt Jane said: "Yes, she's old enough now to go to
work. It's a good idea."
"I'll speak to Mr. Brown and engage the place for her. After a
fortnight, if she pays any sort of attention she'll get three dollars a
week, for she's quick to see into things."
"Yes, if she settles her mind to them. Dear me! I hope she won't turn
out trifling and inefficient like her father. She's got his eyes, only
they're more wide awake. And when a girl has to do for herself, the
sooner she begins the better. I'd reckoned on setting her to do
something this fall, for there's 'Reely to work in the odds and ends; I
always did say I wouldn't bring up a lot of shiftless girls, and I'll
do my duty by her if she isn't altogether mine."
Helen went round to the side entrance and slipped upstairs. Fan and
'Reely slept in the big bed. There was a jog in the room and Helen's cot
was here. She threw off her clothes and crept into bed, and cried with
her whole soul in revolt. What right had anyone to order another's life,
to put one in hard and distasteful places! She had never thought of the
factory before, indeed she had never thought much of the future. For
most healthy energetic girls the present is sufficient, and to Aunt Jane
it was everything. Children were to do to-day's work, there was no fear
but there would be enough to fill up to-morrow when it came.
To go in the factory when Mr. Warfield had said she could make a
teacher! To miss three years in the High School, three splendid
satisfying years, to miss the wonderful knowledges of the wide,
beautiful world when she had just come to know what a few leaves of them
were like. No wonder she cried with a girl's passionate disappointment.
No wonder she saw possibilities in the enchanted future and was
confident of reaching them if she could be allowed.
CHAPTER II
AN EXCURSION TO HOPE
Helen was up at five the next morning. They were early risers in the
summer time at the Mulfords', except Fan and little Tom. Mrs. Mulford
didn't want young ones about bothering, when they could be no sort of
use. Mr. Mulford had quoted the advantage of good habits, and that you
never could begin too soon.
"When I have need of their habits I'll see that they have 'em," she
replied with a confident nod. "Plenty of sleep is good for 'em."
Helen and 'Reely had reached the period of "habits." Mrs. Mulford always
called out sharply at five o'clock.
Oh, what a beautiful world it was! Over east was a chain of high hills,
blue in the morning light, except where the sun struck them. They seemed
part of another world. Between were bits of woodland, meadows, orchards
and the creek that was laid down on the State map as a river, but no
one called it that. Nearer was a cluster of houses, two or three
factories stretching out to South Hope and the railroad station. Oh, why
were beautiful things always so far off?
She hurried on her gown and twisted up her hair in a knot. It was a
faded cambric of last summer, rather short in the skirt for such a large
girl, but then it was pretty well worn out. She helped with the
breakfast, she laid out the dainties for Jenny's lunch, she ran to do
things for Uncle Jason, the world was just full of odds and ends jumbled
together. She wondered why people had to eat so much. Why hadn't they
been made so one meal a day would suffice?
Jenny took her little lunch satchel and trudged on with a cheerful
good-morning. Nearly a mile to walk, and then to work all day in the hot
stuffy place full of unfragrant smells, and the gossip about beaus and
what was going to be the fashion, and perhaps unfriendly comments or
common teasing jokes. That was what they talked about when they came to
see Jenny. They were no great readers, these girls. And was her lot to
be cast with them? Oh, had school days really come to an end? She had
known their worth such a little while, only during the last year, the
last three months she might say. School was a period everyone went
through, but now, to her it had unfolded its magical labyrinth, and she
wanted to roam there forever. Yet though she had shed bitter tears last
night, she did not feel at all like crying now. An exultant life seemed
throbbing within her.
"Now, Helen, you just go upstairs and sweep, and look out for the
corners when you wipe up, and shake the mats out good and hard. See how
quick you can get through."
Aunt Jane always said this Saturday morning. "Just as if I couldn't
remember when I've done it for two years," Helen thought, but she made
no reply. She worked away with her mind on a dozen other things, and her
work was well done, too.
The great oven was heated on Saturday, an old-fashioned brick oven. Pies
and cake and bread, and a big jar full of beans went in it to come out
done to perfection. And the towels and handkerchiefs and stockings were
washed on that day, it saved so much from Monday's work. Nathan and
'Reely weeded in the garden, then peeled apples for sauce, and picked
raspberries to can, making what Aunt Jane called a clean sweep of them.
Dinner again for a hungry host.
"I'm going over to Hope this afternoon," said Uncle Jason, "I s'pose
there's some butter ready to take. Now what do you want?"
"Oh, my! What I don't want would be less. Some of that green and white
gingham, spools of thread, shirting muslin good and stout, and Jenny
said if anyone went over there was a list of things she wanted. It's in
her machine drawer."
"Oh, I never can look after so much. Come mother, go along yourself."
"On Sat'day afternoon! Jason Mulford!"
"Well you can't go on Sunday," and he laughed.
"Yes, I could go over to church on Sunday," she retorted sharply. "Thank
the Lord there's one day you don't have to cook from morning to night,
though like the old Israelites you have to do a double portion on
Sat'day. Dear me, I sometimes wished we lived on manna."
"What is manna?" inquired 'Reely.
"Bread and honey," said her father.
"No, twan't bread and honey either. Jason, why do you say such things!
It's what the children of Israel had to live on forty years in the
wilderness, and they got mighty tired of it too. It's my opinion, 'Reely
Mulford, you'd rather have bread and cake and potpie and baked beans and
berries and such."
'Reely stared with her big brown eyes.
"And--didn't they have any----"
"You're big enough to read the Bible, 'Reely. When I was twelve I had
read it all through, except the chapters with the names which mother
said didn't count. But we didn't have Sunday school books then, and that
was all there was to read on Sunday."
Helen thought everything that happened to Aunt Jane happened before she
was twelve. She had made her father some shirts, she had pieced several
quilts, made bread and cake and spun on the little wheel and could do a
week's washing.
"Well, about Hope?" They seldom said North Hope, or tacked Hope on to
the Center.
"Oh, I couldn't go."
"Well, I can't get all those things. See here, let Helen go."
Aunt Jane looked at her. Helen knew by experience that to want a thing
very much was a sure way of being denied, so she merely went to the
machine drawer and brought the list Jenny had written out, in which were
several mispelled words.
"O Lordy!" ejaculated Uncle Jason.
"Before all these children too! No one would think you were a church
member, Jason," said his wife severely.
"Well, if you want all them things you'll have to send Helen along to
remember. An' I dunno's I have time."
Uncle Jason rose from the table. So did the hired man and Sam. Helen
picked up the list and put it back in the drawer, brought the cloth to
wash Tom's hands and began to pile up the dishes, her heart in a tumult
of desire.
"Jason, what time you going?"
"'Bout two. I've got to see Warren at three. And isn't there butter to
take over?"
"Yes, to Mrs. Dayton. Well--I think it is best to send Helen. Now,
Helen, you wash up the dishes quick and do it well, too. Then wash
yourself and dress. You know it puts Uncle Jason out to wait, he hasn't
the longest temper in the world."
Helen was both quick and deft. Aunt Jane took the credit of this to her
own training, but there was an instinctive delicacy in the girl that
made her wish she had finer and prettier dishes to wash. She did not
truly despise the work so much. She really loved to read advertisements
of fine china and glass, Berlin and Copenhagen wares, Wedgewood and
Limoges, and hunted them up in the big school dictionary.
She was standing on the porch five minutes before two, a wholesome,
happy-looking girl with two braids of light brown hair, tied together
half-way down with a brown ribbon, and some wavy little ends about her
forehead that would curl when they were wet. Her straw hat had a wreath
of rather soiled daisies that sun and showers had not refreshed, but her
blue cambric with white bands looked fresh and nice, though it had been
made from Jenny's skirt, turned the other side out. Aunt Jane had made
her add her wants to the list, so she wouldn't forget a single thing.
The butter was a nice roll wrapped in a cloth and shut tight in an
immaculate tin pail.
With many charges they started off.
"I wish mother'd learn there wan't any sense in fussin so much, but
land! I suppose people are as they grow. Mebbe they can't help it."
"But if one tried? Isn't it like learning other things, or unlearning
them?"
"Well--no, I guess not. You see all these habits and things are inside
of one, born with him or her as you might say, while the book learning
is just--well determination I s'pose. And so's farming."
That wasn't very lucid.
"But if you found some better way of farming."
"There aint many better ways. Keep your ground light and free from weeds
and fertilize and get the best seed and then keep at it."
"And if you do a wrong or foolish thing, try not to repeat it."
"That's about it. But folks are mighty sot in their opinions, and hate
to change. If I find a better way I take it up. Land! We couldn't farm
in some things as people did a hundred year ago."
There was a splendid row of shade trees on the road to North Hope,
mostly maples, but here and there an elm or a chestnut. There were farms
and gardens, and old settlers who did not want any change. Then the
railroad had established business lines outside the Center, while that
had hardly changed in fifty years. But it kept a quaint beauty of its
own. Here and there was an old well sweep, then a long line of stone
wall covered with Virginia creeper or clematis. And then a tall row of
hollyhocks in all colors, or great sunflowers with their buds stretching
out of close coverts. It was so tranquil that the tired girl lapsed into
a kind of dreamy content. She used to think in later years this was a
sort of turning point in her life, and yet she had no presentiment.
"Now the thing you better do, Helen," said her uncle, "is to get out
here and go straight over Main Street and do your tradin'. Land sakes! I
wouldn't look up those forty botherin' things for a handful of money.
I'll drive round and leave the butter, and then you go to Mrs. Dayton's
when you're through. I may be a little belated. Be sure now you don't
forget anything."
Helen sprang out, holding her satchel with its precious contents very
tightly. The stores were really quite showy, and on Saturday afternoon
everybody who could, went out. She met some of her schoolmates. Ella
Graham and her mother were buying pretty articles for their sea-side
trip. Many were just looking. The day was not so very hot, indeed now
it began to cloud over a little, just enough to soften the atmosphere.
She kept studying the list. She couldn't match the edging, but she took
two samples that were nearest to it, and she couldn't find the peculiar
blue shade of sewing silk. She made believe now and then, that she was
ordering some of the lovely lawns and cambrics, and that she didn't have
to consider whether they would wash well, and how they would get made.
She chose ribbons and laces to trim them with. And oh, the pretty hats,
the fresh crisp flowers!
Then she made a sudden pause. Finery went out of her head. A book and
picture store, and in the very front, the post of honor, a most
exquisite Mother and Child--the Bodenhausen Madonna.
Mr. Warfield had two or three in his collection, and the Sistine Madonna
had gone to her heart. But this child with his mother's eyes, and the
tender clinging love as if he was afraid some hand might wrest him from
his mother's clasp, the love unutterable in both faces filled her with a
wordless admiration. It seemed as if she could stand there forever, as
if all her longings were lost in this rapture.
Presently she summoned courage to go in and inquire about it. A modern
Madonna by a young German, a new thought of divine motherhood. It was a
very fine photograph, framed, and the price was fifteen dollars.
Of course she had no more thought of buying it than of the lawns and
laces. But she was very glad she had seen it. Sometime there might be a
new world for her, where she could have a few of these lovely things.
She must descend to gingham and shirting muslin.
Then she hurried on to Mrs. Dayton's. Uncle Jason had not come. There
was a very fine old lady sitting on the porch in a silken gown with
ruffles and laces, a heavy golden chain drooping about her waist, a
large diamond flashing at her throat and smaller ones in her ears; while
her fingers were jeweled to the last degree. But oh, how wrinkled she
was, and her hair was threaded with white, while her eyes seemed almost
faded out.
Helen went around to the side entrance. Mrs. Dayton was arranging the
table for supper. A very pleasant, plump, amiable woman of middle-life
in a white gown, almost covered with a big apron.
"Why Helen Grant! Aren't you tired to death with those bundles? Sit down
and get a breath. Your uncle said you would come. Take off your hat.
You're just in time to have a bit of supper. Mr. Mulford said you were
sent to do a lot of shopping. How did you make out?"
"Oh, very well, I think. You see I did not have to use my taste or
judgment, it was all mapped out for me," smiling. "I was afraid I should
be late."
"Oh, your uncle said it would be near seven when he came. And it is only
quarter past six. Now take off your hat and fan yourself cool, and in
five minutes I'll call the folks. They haven't all come yet. The
Disbrowes get here to-night. I heard you quite distinguished yourself at
school! You take learning from your father's side. The Mulford genius
does not run in that channel."
Mrs. Dayton gave a pleasant smile. There was no malice in her speech.
Helen colored a little under the praise.
"Pity you don't live nearer so that you could come in to the High
School."
"Oh, I wish I could. I love to study. And there are so many splendid
things in the world that one would like to know."
"What are you going to do with yourself?"
Ah, it was not what she wanted to do. The tears suddenly softened her
eyes.
"Oh, Helen, an idea has just come to me." Mrs. Dayton had been putting
some last touches to the table and paused at the corner with a glass in
her hand, studying the girl with comprehensive interest. "I suppose you
meant to stay at home during vacation and help your Aunt? But Aurelia's
getting a big girl and there are so many of you. I wonder if you
wouldn't like to come over here and help me, and get paid for it? Why, I
think you'd just suit. Did you see that old lady sitting on the front
porch? That's Mrs. Van Dorn. She was here last summer. She had a
companion then, a real nice girl about twenty, that she had sort of
adopted. She has no end of money and is queer and full of whims. She
wants to go to Europe in the fall and spend the winter in France. She
travels all over. But the girl, Miss Gage, didn't want to go."
"Oh, dear, you don't mean"--Helen stopped and colored scarlet, and her
breath came in bounds.
"That you should go in her place? Oh; no, you can't indulge in such
luxuries just yet. Miss Gage finally consented on condition that she
could spend the summer with her folks on Long Island. There's quite a
family of them, and they seem to care a good deal for each other. Mrs.
Van Dorn wants someone to run up and down for her, read to her, fan her
sometimes and go out driving with her. She doesn't get up until after
eight, and has coffee, fruit, and rolls brought up to her room. And
she's a great hand for flowers--her vases must be washed out and filled
every day. Then she comes down on the porch, wants the paper read to her
and likes to talk over things. After dinner she takes a nap. Then she
goes for a drive. They used to take a book along last summer, she's as
fond of poetry as any young girl. Mr. Warfield said you were the finest
reader of poetry in the school. And what I'm driving at is that I do
believe you could suit her, and I'd like someone to help me out a little
when I'm rushed. Joanna's good, but one pair of hands can't do
everything. I asked Mary Cross to come over and read, but she drones,
and she can't bear poetry. And I've been thinking who I could find. You
see it isn't like a maid. Miss Gray, the nurse, comes in every morning
and gives her massage and all that. She's smart enough to help herself
and hates to be thought old. Now, if you could come and help both, and
earn a little money? It would be three dollars a week, and no real hard
work."
"Oh!" cried Helen in a fervor of delight that made her absolutely faint
at heart.
Joanna opened the door. "Haven't you rung the bell?" she asked in
surprise.
"I declare!" Mrs. Dayton laughed and rang it at once. Joanna brought in
the soup tureen and stood it on the side table.
"We will finish the talk by and by," the mistress said.
The boarders came in. Mr. and Mrs. Pratt, Mrs. Lessing and her
daughters, Mr. Conway and Mrs. Van Dorn. When the Disbrowes arrived the
house would be filled.
"This is my young friend Miss Helen Grant," announced Mrs. Dayton, and
she gave the girl a seat beside her. Mrs. Van Dorn was next.
Helen enjoyed it so much. The spotless cloth with its fern leaves and
wild roses, the small bowl of flowers at each end of the table, the
shining silver, and Joanna's quiet serving. The guests talked in low,
pleasant tones. At home there was always a din and a clatter and two or
three children talking at once, a coarse and generally soiled table
cloth, and Aunt Jane scolding one and another. And there was always a
slop of some kind.
After the soup came the dinner proper; roast chicken and cold boiled ham
cut in thin slices, not chunks. What a luscious pinky tint it had. And
the vegetables had a dainty tempting aspect. The table service was
delicately decorated porcelain, but it seemed rare china to the girl.
What lovely living this was!
Helen possessed a certain kind of adaptiveness. Aunt Jane would have
called it "putting on airs." She made no blunders, she answered the few
questions addressed to her, in a quiet tone, for she did not have to
shout to be heard over the din of children.
There was dessert and fruit, not so much more than they were used to
having at home, for the Mulford's were good livers. Afterward the
boarders sauntered out on the porch or the lawn seats, where the
gentlemen smoked.
"Now you've seen Mrs. Van Dorn, and she isn't so very formidable, is
she? Sometimes she is very amiable, but I suppose few of us keep that
even tenor of the way so much talked about. And there are queer people
all over the world."
"Whoa, Betty, whoa! You'll get home to your supper presently," exclaimed
a well-known voice, as wheels announced the approaching vehicle.
Mrs. Dayton and Helen went out. Mr. Mulford thought first he couldn't
stop a minute, it was late. But the hostess explained that she had
something very important to talk over, and he could have his supper
while he was listening.
He demurred a little, but finally assented. Mrs. Dayton brought him a
tempting plateful, and then unfolded her plan which had shaped itself
definitely in this brief while. She would come over Monday afternoon,
meanwhile he was to prepare the way for her.
"Well, that does beat me! Why Helen, you've struck luck! I don't see how
mother can make any real objection, though she'll fuss at first. That's
her way. And as you say ma'am we've a houseful at home, Helen ought to
be mighty obliged to you."
Helen caught Mrs. Dayton's hand and pressed it against her cheek in a
mute caress.
"And now we must start off home. Oh, Helen, here's a letter for you.
Come, you're too young for that sort of work," and her uncle laughed.
She lingered in the door-way opening it. Mr. Warfield had to go away
before he had expected, but he begged her to take the High School
examination and see how she stood. When he returned they would talk the
matter over. It would be such a pity for her to stop here. He sent a
list of questions for her to study out.
They hurried off home, and Betty was nothing loth. Uncle Jason said he
would lay the matter before mother to-morrow. Helen better not say
anything.
"And you'll be so fine riding out every day, and keeping company with
big bugs that I don't see how you'll ever get back to us again. Mebbe
you won't. The High School may be next step."
She squeezed Uncle Jason's arm in a sort of transport. A shadowy
thought like this had crossed her brain.
Aunt Jane was out on the doorstep with some of the younger children.
"Well, you have come at last, after keeping one on tenterhooks and
supper warmed up and got cold again, and no one knowing whether you were
thrown out and killed or waylaid----"
"There mother, nothing happened except that Warren fellow went off and I
waited and waited for him. I was bound to get my note. And we had supper
at Mrs. Dayton's. I sent Helen there to wait for me."
"Oh, Helen--we couldn't think! Did you get the things? If you'd lost my
money--" and Jenny made a threatening pause.
"I didn't lose anything." Helen began to unpack her satchel on the
cleanest end of the dining table. "I found everything but the lace and
the blue sewing silk, and Mr. Morris is going to order them by mail. He
sent some samples of lace in case he couldn't find the exact match."
"But it's got to match," returned Jenny in a positive tone. "And I did
want that blue silk to finish my stitching Monday night. If you'd come
home early with it I could have finished it to-night. H'm, h'm," opening
the parcel and nodding. "Mrs. Dayton got her house full? And what did
you see nice? Have prices gone down any, but I s'pose its hardly time!
And was the style out in their best? Are they wearing ruffles on skirts
or just plain? And are they real scant? Dear me! I haven't been over to
North Hope in a dog's age."
Helen didn't remember about skirts except that Mrs. Van Dorn's light
silk had a beautiful black lace flounce. And the Madonna was still plain
before her eyes.
"Well you are stupid enough," cried Jenny in disgust. "I think I'd used
my eyes to a better purpose. And you didn't even bring home any
fashion-papers!"
Mr. and Mrs. Mulford were still having a little bickering on the stoop.
Then she came in, examined the gingham and the muslin, sent the children
to bed, told Helen to take the things off the table, and said she was
tired to death, and that no one ever thought about her, or cared whether
they kept her up till midnight.
Helen was very glad to get away to bed, and live over the meal at Mrs.
Dayton's, with its ease and refinement. How could she help building
air-castles when youth is so rich in imagination, and hope is boundless!
And if one unlooked-for thing happened, might not another?
CHAPTER III
AIR CASTLES WITH FOUNDATIONS
Aunt Jane said Helen must stay home from church Sunday morning, and help
with the dinner. Joe Northrup and two cousins were coming to visit. In
the afternoon all the younger portion went to Sunday School, and the
little leisure Helen had afterward was devoted to reading aloud their
library books. And when she came down Monday morning, Aunt Jane said in
her brisk, authoritative fashion:
"Now, Helen, you fly 'round and get at the washing. See if you can't
learn something useful in vacation. A big girl like you ought to know
how to do 'most everything. I washed when I had to stand up on a stool
to reach the washboard."
Considering that for the last two months Helen had helped with the
washing before school time, and had often run every step of the way
because she was late, the request did not strike her as pertaining
strictly to vacation. She went about her work cheerily. Uncle Jason had
whispered in her ear, "Don't you worry. I guess it will all come out
right."
Then the clothes were folded down, and after clearing the dinner away,
Helen began to iron. Aunt Jane dropped on the old lounge and took her
forty winks, then changed her gown, put on a clean white apron, which
Helen knew was for company, and the thought added to her blitheness.
Between three and four Mrs. Dayton drove up in the coupé with Mrs. Van
Dorn, who continued her journeying around. The Mulfords' front-yard was
rather pretty, with two borders of various flowers in bloom, and, as the
younger children had gone over to the woods, it was quiet and serene all
about. Helen glanced out of the side window, and gave thanks for the
decent appearance of the place.
The conversation seemed to be not altogether dispassionate. She heard
Aunt Jane raise her voice, and talk in her dogmatic manner. Oh! what if
she couldn't go! She clasped her hot hands up to her face, and the iron
stood there on the cloth and scorched, a thing Aunt Jane made a fuss
about.
Truth to tell, Mrs. Mulford had two minds pulling her in opposite
directions. It would just spoil Helen to go. She would hate working in
the shop afterward. She would be planning all the time to get to the
High School. She knew enough for ordinary girls. She would have to work
for her living, and she couldn't spend three years getting ready. There
was a little feeling, also, that she didn't want Helen any nicer or
finer than her own girls. They had a father who could help them along.
Helen hadn't. And if education shouldn't do more for her than it had for
her father!
But there was the money, and any kind of work that made actual money was
a great thing in Mrs. Mulford's estimation. Nine or ten weeks.
Twenty-seven or thirty dollars!
"You see, I'd counted on giving Helen a good training in housework this
vacation. When girls go to school they aint good for much that way. And
'long in October she's going in the shop, and then she won't have much
chance to learn. An' I d' know as it'll be a good thing for her to spend
her time readin' novels an' settin' 'round dreamin' and moonin'."
"She'll read a good deal beside novels. Mrs. Van Dorn is a very
intelligent woman, and keeps up to the times. She has all the magazines,
and the fine weekly papers, and she knows more of what is going on in
the big world than most of the men. Then Helen would assist me in many
things. Oh! I would see that she'd learn something useful every day,"
Mrs. Dayton declared, with a bright smile.
"Then she aint fixed up. She's outgrown most of her clothes, an' I'd
'lotted on having her sew some. She can run the machine, and I don't
believe in girls who can't do any sewing. I'd be ashamed to bring up one
so helpless. Here's my Jenny making most of her weddin' things. We don't
count on having a dressmaker till the last, to put on the finishing
touches."
"About the clothes," began Mrs. Dayton in a persuasive tone, "I have two
or three lawn dresses that would make over nicely for Helen. And you
know I did quite a bit of dressmaking through Mr. Dayton's long illness.
And there's my machine. She would have some time to sew. Oh, you could
depend on me not to let her waste her time."
Mrs. Dayton had certainly been a thrifty woman, if it was on higher
lines than anything Mrs. Jason aspired to. She had money in the bank,
beside getting her house clear.
Aunt Jane's arguments seemed over-ruled in such a pleasant yet decisive
manner that she began to feel out-generaled. Uncle Jason had said
yesterday, "You'd better let her go. If they wanted her in the shop
right away you'd send her. So what's the difference!"
"There's a great deal of difference," she answered sharply, but she
couldn't quite explain it. For Helen the three dollars a week really won
the day. Aunt Jane tried to stand out for the rest of the week, but Mrs.
Dayton said she would come over on Wednesday, and she knew she could fix
Helen up, without a bit of trouble.
"Don't let her fool away her money," said Aunt Jane. "You'd better keep
it until the end of the month."
Mrs. Dayton nodded and rose. The carriage was coming slowly up the road.
Aunt Jane did not go out in the kitchen, but upstairs, and looked over
Helen's wardrobe. A white frock, a cambric, blue, with white dots, and a
seersucker, trimmed with bands of blue. Then, there was the striped
white skirt of Jenny's she meant to make over. They could do that
to-morrow. She could conjure some of it out before supper-time, and put
in the shirts and collars, though at fourteen Helen ought to know how to
iron them. She would forget all she had learned. It really wasn't the
thing to let her go.
Helen went on ironing. 'Reely's white frock fell to her share; indeed,
it seemed as if 'most everything did to-day. She was hot and tired, and,
oh! if she could not go!
"I don't see why those young ones don't come back. 'Reely hasn't a bit
more sense than Fan. She needs a good trouncing, and she'll get it, too.
You leave off, Helen, and shell them beans; they ought to have been on
half an hour ago. And lay the two slices of ham in cold water to draw
out some of the salt; then the potatoes. I'll iron."
She did not ask, and Aunt Jane did not proffer her decision. Helen
feared it was adverse, then she recalled the fact that Aunt Jane always
told the unpleasant things at once. Ill tidings with her never lagged.
So she took heart of hope again. Then there were raspberries to pick.
And supper, and children scolded and threatened.
"Well?" said Uncle Jason inquiringly.
"She was here, but I haven't just made up my mind. She'll be here
Wednesday."
"Whew!" ejaculated Uncle Jason.
She went down the garden path to meet Jenny, who took the shortest way
across lots.
"I'm goin' to sleep on it," she said, after she had told Jenny.
"But you'll let her go! Why, it would be foolish!"
"I s'pose I shall. But I'll keep her on tenter hooks to-night. Right
down to the bottom I don't approve of it. She'll be planning all summer
to get to that High School. Three years is too much to throw away when
you're dependent on other folks."
So Helen had to go to bed unsatisfied, for Uncle Jason wouldn't be
waylaid.
"I've cut you a frock out of that striped muslin of Jenny's," Aunt Jane
announced, the next morning. "Sew up the seams, and put in the hem, and
then I'll fix the waist."
Aunt Jane was "handy," as many country women have to be.
"You were mighty close about that business of Sat'day afternoon," Aunt
Jane flung out when she could no longer contain herself. "I s'pose it
don't make much difference whether you go or not?"
"Oh, I should like to go." Helen's voice was unsteady. "But Mrs. Dayton
told Uncle Jason to talk it over with you, and then she would come and
see you, and he said--that it would be as--as--and it seemed as if I
hadn't much to do with it until----"
"Well, I've decided to let you go and try. They may not like you. Rich
old women are generally queer and finicky, and don't keep one mind
hardly a week at a time. So it's doubtful if you stay. Then it is a good
deal like being a servant, and none of the Mulfords ever lived out, as
far as I've heard."
Helen colored. She had not thought of that aspect. Neither had she
considered that her dream might come to an untimely end.
"And it seems a shame to waste the whole summer when there's so much to
do."
"But if they had wanted me in the shop you would have let me go,
wouldn't you?" Helen said in a tone that she tried hard to keep from
being pert.
"That would have been different. A steady job for years, and getting
higher wages all the time. I've told Jenny to engage the chance."
Years in a shop, doing one thing over and over! She recalled a sentence
she had heard Mr. Warfield quote several times from an English writer,
"But that one man should die ignorant who had a capacity for knowledge,
this I call tragedy!" She was not very clear in her own mind as to what
tragedy really was, but if one had a capacity for wider knowledge, would
it not be tragedy to spend years doing what one loathed? She hated the
smells of the shoe shop, the common air that seemed to envelop everyone,
the loud voices and boisterous laughs. And she wouldn't mind helping
someone for her board, and going to the High School. Why, she did a
great deal of work here, but it seemed nothing to Aunt Jane.
The frock was finished, and she washed it out, starched it, and would
iron it to-morrow morning. Then there were stockings to mend, although
the two younger boys went barefoot around the farm. And she worked up to
the very moment the carriage turned up the bend in the road, when she
ran and dressed herself while Aunt Jane packed the old valise. The
children stood around.
"Oh, Mis' Dayton, can't I come some day?" cried Fanny. "How long are
you going to keep Helen?"
"Till she gets tired and homesick," was the reply.
A smile crossed Helen's lips and stayed there, softening her face
wonderfully.
They shouted out their good-bys, and asked their mother a dozen
questions, receiving about as many slaps in return. For the remainder of
the day, Mrs. Jason was undeniably cross.
"That girl'll turn out just like her father," she said to Jenny. "She
hasn't a bit of gratitude."
"And I hope the old woman will be as queer as they make them," returned
Jenny with a laugh.
In the few years of her life, Helen had never been visiting, to stay
away over night. This was like some of the stories she had read and
envied the heroine. There was a small alcove off Mrs. Dayton's room,
with a curtain stretched across. For now the house was really full,
except one guest chamber. There was a closet for her clothes just off
the end of the short hall, that led to the back stairs, which ran down
to the kitchen, a spacious orderly kitchen, good enough to live in
altogether, Helen thought.
She helped to take the dishes out to Joanna, and begged to wipe them for
her.
"If you're not heavy handed," said Joanna, a little doubtful.
"Or butter-fingered," laughed Helen. "That's what we say at home. But
these dishes are so lovely that it is like--well it's like reading
verses after some heavy prose."
"I'm not much on verses," replied Joanna, watching her new help warily.
She did work with a dainty kind of touch.
Mrs. Dayton came, and stood looking at them with a humorous sort of
smile.
"She knows how to wipe dishes," said Joanna, nodding approvingly.
"It is a good deal to suit Joanna. No doubt she will excuse you this
time from wiping pots and pans, and you may come out of doors with me."
The lawn--they called it that here at North Hope--presented a
picturesque aspect. A party were playing croquet. Mrs. Disbrowe was
walking her twenty-months'-old little girl up and down the path. Mrs.
Van Dorn sat in a wicker rocking chair that had a hood over the top to
shield her from the air. Her silk gown flowed around gracefully, and her
hands were a sparkle of rings.
"Oh, how sweet the air is," said Helen. "There's sweet-clover somewhere,
and when the dew falls it is so delightful."
"They have it in the next-door lawn and the mower was run over it awhile
ago."
Helen drew long delicious breaths. No noisy children, and the soft
laughs, the gay talk was like music to her. She walked across the porch.
"Mrs. Dayton said you were fond of reading aloud," began Mrs. Van Dorn.
"Your voice is nice and smooth."
"Your voice is like your father's, Helen! I had not remarked it before.
Only it is a girl's voice," Mrs. Dayton commented.
"I am glad it suggests his," exclaimed Helen with a pleasurable thrill.
"Where is your father?" asked Mrs. Van Dorn.
"He is dead," said Mrs. Dayton. "Both father and mother are dead."
"I was an orphan, too," continued Mrs. Van Dorn. "And I had no near
relatives. It is a sorrowful lot."
"Helen has had good friends, relatives."
"That's a comfort. I heard, we all did, that you were one of the best
speakers at the closing of school. It was in the paper."
"Oh, was it?" Helen's eyes glowed with gratification.
"Yes. So Mrs. Dayton suggested you might be as good as some grown-up
body. That was Robert Browning's poem you recited."
"It is a splendid poem," cried Helen enthusiastically. "You can see it
all; the squadron--what was left of it after the battle--and the 'brief
and bitter debate,' and the order to blow up the vessels on the beach.
And then Hervé Riel, just a sailor, stepping out and making his daring
proposal, and going 'safe through shoal and rock!' Oh, how the captain
must have stood breathless! And the English coming too late! I'm glad
someone put it in stirring verse."
Helen paused with a scarlet face. She never talked this way to anyone
except Mr. Warfield.
"Yes," said Mrs. Van Dorn, "I have seen the man who wrote it, talked
with him and his lovely wife, who wrote verses quite as beautiful. I
think you like stirring poems," in a half inquiry.
"Yes, I do," she replied tremulously, and in her girlish enthusiasm she
thought she could have fallen down at the feet of the man who wrote
Hervé Riel. She never had thought of his being an actual living man.
"And do you know Macaulay's 'Horatius'?"
"Oh, I don't know very much--only the poems in the reading books, and a
few that Mr. Warfield had. I know most of Longfellow."
"The Center is rather behind the towns around, although it is the oldest
part; settled more than a hundred years ago. But it is largely farms.
The railroad passed it by some fifteen years ago, and the stations have
improved rapidly. Why, we have quite a library here, and the High School
for more than a half the county," explained Mrs. Dayton.
"It's not as pretty as this Hope. And the range of hills to the
northeast--I suppose you call them mountains--and the river, add so much
to it."
[Illustration: Helen put her head down suddenly, and pressed her lips on
the jewelled hand.--Page 55.]
"And we have only a little creek that empties into Piqua River, and a
pond in a low place, that we skate on in the winter," said Helen
rather mirthfully. "I can't help wondering what the ocean is like, and
the great lakes, and Niagara Falls, and the Mississippi River with all
its mouths emptying into the Gulf of Mexico. And the Amazon, and the
Andes."
"And Europe, and the Alps, and the lovely lakes, and the Balkans, and
the Gulf of Arabia, and India, and the Himalayas, and Japan----"
"Oh, dear, what a grand world!" exclaimed Helen, when Mrs. Van Dorn
paused. "I don't suppose anyone has ever seen it all," and her tone was
freighted with regret.
"I have seen a good deal of it. I have been round the world, and lived
in many foreign cities."
"Oh! oh!" Helen put her head down suddenly and pressed her lips on the
jeweled hand. The unconscious and impulsive homage touched the old
heart.
"And people who have done wonderful things, who have painted pictures,
and made beautiful statues, and built bridges and churches and palaces,"
the girl assumed.
"Most of them were built before my time, hundreds of years ago. But I
have been in a great many of them."
"And seen the Queen!"
"If you mean Queen Victoria, yes. And other queens as well. And the
Empress of the French when she had her beauty and her throne."
"Oh, dear!" sighed Helen with a long breath. And Aunt Jane had called
her a queer old woman; Aunt Jane, who had never even been to New York.
It was getting too dark to play croquet. Mrs. Disbrowe had gone in some
time ago with her baby in her arms, and somehow it had suggested the
Madonna picture to Helen. The gentlemen smoked and talked. Then Mrs. Van
Dorn rose and bade them good-night, and pressed Helen's hand.
"I think I shall like your little girl very much," she said to Mrs.
Dayton, in the hall. "She's modest and not at all dull."
Mrs. Van Dorn stepped off, as if she was still at middle life. She was
wonderfully well preserved, but then, for almost forty years she had
taken the best of care of herself. She wouldn't have admitted to anyone
that she was past eighty. Sometimes in her travels she had a maid, often
when she was abroad she had both a maid and a man. For two years she
had been traveling about her own country, and seeing the changes.
Yet her life had not been set in rose leaves in her youth. She had
worked hard, had a lover who jilted her for a girl not half as pretty
but rich. And when she was thirty-five, a rich old man married her, and
gave her a lovely home; then, ten years afterward, left her a rich
widow, and told her to have the best time she could. If she could only
have had one little girl! She thought she would adopt one, but the child
with the lovely face had some mean traits, and she provided for her
elsewhere. She traveled, she met entertaining people; she liked refined
society; she acquired a good deal of knowledge with her pleasure.
But to grow old! And one had to some time. At ninety perhaps. What did
Ninon de l'Enclos do, and Madame Recamier? Plenty of fresh air, as much
exercise as she could stand, bathing and massage, cheerfulness, keeping
in touch with the world of to-day, and once-in-a-while a long, quiet
rest, and early to bed as she was doing here. Ah! if one could be set
back twenty years even, twenty real years, and have all that much longer
to live!
The child's admiration had touched her. It was not for her diamonds and
emeralds, for her Chantilly lace, nor for the fact that she had money
enough to buy costly things. Helen Grant was ignorant of the value of
these adornments. It was for the understanding of something finer and
larger, experiences garnered up, real knowledge. How odd in a little
country maiden! And this was sweeter than any of the ordinary flatteries
offered her.
Helen thought her little bed delightful, and she was not sure but it was
all a dream. She was still more bewildered when she opened her eyes.
Someone was gently stirring about. She sprang out on the floor.
"You needn't get up just yet," said Mrs. Dayton.
"Oh, I am used to it," with a bright smile. "And maybe I can help."
She did find many little things to do. It was so pleasant to be allowed
to see them herself, and do them without ordering. Mrs. Dayton said
"Will you do this or that," as if she could decline, but she was very
glad to be of service.
Then the boarders sauntered in to breakfast, and that was done with.
Helen dusted the parlor, she had swept the porch and the paved walk
down to the street before the boarders were up. Then she helped with the
dishes.
"That girl knows how to work," and Joanna nodded approvingly.
"Perhaps you would like to go to market with me," suggested Mrs. Dayton.
"It would be well for you to learn your way about in case I wanted to
send you out of an errand."
"Oh! it would be splendid! But Mrs. Van Dorn----"
Mrs. Dayton laughed. "There comes Miss Gray, and the fussing will take a
good hour. Though I think it pays, even at a dollar an hour."
Helen was silent from amazement.
"Oh, she has patients at three dollars an hour, real invalids. And she
could get more in the city. Joanna knows about the breakfast. Mrs. Van
Dorn is wise enough not to gorge her stomach with useless and injurious
food. I never saw a person take better care of herself."
It was a very pleasant walk under maples and elms, with here and there
an old-fashioned Lombardy poplar; lindens with their fringy tassels, and
horse-chestnuts with their dense, spreading leaves. There was but one
real market in Hope, but numerous smaller attempts. Mrs. Dayton gave
her orders for the day's provision.
"Now, we will go around the longest way," smilingly. "There's the High
School. It calls in quite a number of winter boarders, and sometimes the
large boys prove very troublesome. And here is the Free Library, though
there is quite a tax to support it, and numerous contributions. There is
a fine reference-room for the scholars. Education seems to be made easy
now-a-days. Let us go in."
The lower floor was devoted to the library. A large room was shelved
around in alcoves, reserved for some particular kind of books. History,
biography, science, music, discoveries and travels, as well as novels.
The reading-room was at one end, the reference department at the other.
Just now it was very quiet, being rather dull times.
Up on the next floor was a fine auditorium for amusements and lectures.
In the wings were small rooms used for lodge meetings and such purposes.
Helen was very much interested. Oh, what a happy time! And yet she felt
a little conscience-smitten, as if she wasn't doing her whole duty.
The papers had come, and presently Mrs. Van Dorn took her accustomed
seat. Mrs. Pratt was at the corner of the piazza doing needlework. Miss
Lessing was sketching from nature. The younger girl was out hunting wild
flowers.
Helen read the home news, then the foreign news. It seemed queer to know
what they were doing in London, and Paris, and Rome, that hitherto had
been merely places on the map to her. And then what financiers in New
York were talking of, which really was an unknown language to her, but
not to Mrs. Van Dorn, who for years had held the key.
Perhaps the charm in Helen was her interest in what she was doing.
Sometimes she made quite a fanciful thing of her work at home, though
she was not what you would call a romantic girl. And now most of the
time she was reading, she put life into her tones. Mrs. Van Dorn had
been here and there, and she wanted the descriptions of things to seem
real to her.
"You're a very good reader," she said approvingly. "You must not let
anyone cultivate you on different lines with their elocutionary ideas,
or you will be spoiled. Who taught you?"
"Mr. Warfield. He was principal of the school. I was in his class last
year."
"He has some common sense. When you go to an opera you expect to hear
ranting and sighing, and sobbing, but sensible people do not talk that
way about the every-day things of life."
"I don't know what an opera is like," said Helen with a kind of bright
mirthfulness at her own ignorance.
"I suppose not. Men and women singing the love, and sorrow, and woe, and
trials of other men and women, long ago dead, or perhaps never alive
anywhere but in the composer's brain. It is the exquisite singing that
thrills you. But you wouldn't want it for steady diet."
Miss Lessing spoke of two famous singers who had been in New York during
the winter. And she had heard the Wagner Trilogy, which she thought
magnificent.
"Yes. I've heard it at Beyreuth." Mrs. Van Dorn nodded, as if it might
be an ordinary entertainment.
"Oh, it has been my dream to go abroad some time," and Miss Lessing
sighed.
And there was a girl in the world who loved her own folks quite as well
as a journey abroad. There was pure affection for you! Miss Lessing
would jump at the offer she had made Clara Gage.
They were summoned in to luncheon. Mr. Conway was the only man of the
party, not much of a talker, but the ladies loved to sit and talk over
their morning's adventures, or their afternoon's intentions. Mrs. Dayton
never hurried them. They all considered it the most home-y place at
which they had ever boarded.
Mrs. Van Dorn went off for her nap. So did several of the others. Mrs.
Dayton took Helen up-stairs. She had exhumed two of her old lawns, and
thought they could modernize them into summer frocks. They were very
