mental strain," Victor stammered.
"Of what nature?" asked Nicot.
"Never mind what nature, Lieutenant," interrupted the vicomte.  "It is
enough that he has brain fever.  The question is, can you bring him
around?"
Nicot eyed his patient critically.  "It is splendid flesh, but he has
been on a long debauch.  I'll fetch my case and bleed him a bit."
"Poor lad!" said Victor.  "God knows, he has been through enough
already.  What if he should die?"
"Would he not prefer it so?" the vicomte asked.  "Were I in his place I
should consider death a blessing in disguise.  But do not worry; he
will pull out of it, if only for a day, in order to run his sword
through that fool of a D'Hérouville.  The Chevalier always keeps his
engagements.  I will leave you now.  I will call in the morning."
For two weeks the Chevalier's mind was without active thought or sense
of time.  It was as if two weeks had been plucked from his allotment
without his knowledge or consent.  Many a night Victor and Breton were
compelled to use force to hold the sick man on his mattress.   He
horrified the nuns at evening prayer by shouting for wine, calling the
main at dice, or singing a camp song.  At other times his laughter
broke the quiet of midnight or the stillness of dawn.  But never in all
his ravings did he mention the marquis or the tragedy of the last rout.
Some secret consciousness locked his lips.  Sometimes Brother Jacques
entered the berthroom and applied cold cloths, and rarely the young
priest failed to quiet the patient.  Often Victor came in softly to
find the Chevalier sleeping that restless sleep of the fever-bound and
the priest, a hand propping his chin, lost in reverie.  One night
Victor had been up with the Chevalier.   The berthroom was close and
stifling.  He left the invalid in Breton's care and sought the deck for
a breath of air, cold and damp though it was.  Glancing up, he saw
Brother Jacques pacing the poop-deck, his hands clasped behind him, his
head bent forward, absorbed in thought.  Victor wondered about this
priest.  A mystery enveloped his beauty, his uncommunicativeness.
Presently the Jesuit caught sight of the dim, half-recognizable face
below.
"The Chevalier improves?" he asked.
"His mind has just cleared itself of the fever's fog, thank God!" cried
Victor, heartily.
"He will live, then," replied Brother Jacques, sadly; and continued his
pacing.  After a few moments Victor went below again, and the priest
mused aloud: "Yes, he will live; misfortune and misery are long-lived."
All about him rolled the smooth waters, touched faintly with the first
pallor of dawn.
On the sixteenth of April the Chevalier was declared strong enough to
be carried up to the deck, where he was laid on a cot, his head propped
with pillows in a manner such as to prevent the rise and fall of the
ship from disturbing him.  O the warmth and glory of that spring
sunshine!  It flooded his weak, emaciated frame with a soothing heat, a
sense of gladness, peace, calm.  As the beams draw water from the
rivers to the heavens, so they drew forth the fever-poison from his
veins and cast it to the cleansing winds.  He was aware of no desire
save that of lying there in the sun; of watching the clouds part, join,
and dissolve, only to form again, when the port rose; of measuring the
bright horizon when the port sank.  From time to time he held up his
white hands and let the sun incarnadine them.  He spoke to no one,
though when Victor sat beside him he smiled.  On the second day he
feebly expressed a desire for some one to read to him.
"What shall I read, Paul?" asked  Victor, joyously.
"You will find my Odyssey in the berthroom.  Read me of Ulysses when he
finally arrived at Ithaca and found Penelope still faithful."
"Monsieur," said Chaumonot, who overheard the request, "would you not
rather I should read to you from the life of Loyola?"
"No, Father," gently; "I am still pagan enough to love the thunder of
Homer."
"If only I might convince you of the futility of such books!" earnestly.
"Nothing is futile, Father, which is made of grace and beauty."
So Victor read from the immortal epic.  He possessed a fine voice, and
being a musician he knew how to use it.  The voice of his friend and
the warmth of the sun combined to produce a pleasant drowsiness to
which the Chevalier yielded, gratefully.  That night he slept soundly.
The following day was not without a certain glory.  The wind was mild
and gentle like that which springs up suddenly during a summer's
twilight and breathes mysteriously among the tops of the pines or stirs
a murmur in the fields of grain.  The sea wrinkled and crinkled its
ancient face, not boisterously, but rather kindly; like a giant who had
forgotten his feud with mankind and lay warming himself in the
sunshine.  From the unbroken circle of the horizon rose a cup of
perfect turquoise.  Victor, leaning against the rail, vowed that he
sniffed the perfume of spices, blown up from the climes of the eternal
summer.
"I feel it in my bones," he said, solemnly, "that I shall write verses
to-day.  What is it the presence of spring brings forth from us?--this
lightness of spirit, this gaiety, this flinging aside of worldly cares,
this longing to laugh and sing?"
"Well, Master Poet," and Major du Puys clapped the young man on the
shoulder and smiled into his face.  "Let them be like 'Henri at
Cahors,' and, my faith! you may read them all day to me."
"No, I have in mind a happy refrain.  'Where are the belles of the
balconies?'  This is the time of year when life awakens in the gardens.
Between four and five the ladies will come out upon the balconies and
pass the time of day.  Some one will have discovered a new comfit, and
word will go round that Mademoiselle So-and-So, who is a great lady,
has fallen in love with a poor gentleman.  And lackeys will wander
forth with scented notes of their mistresses, and many a gallant will
furbish up his buckles.  Heigho!  Where, indeed, are the belles of the
balconies?  But, Major, I wish to thank you for the privileges which
you have extended the Chevalier and myself."
"Nonsense, my lad!" cried the good major.  "What are we all but a large
family, with a worldly and a spiritual father?  All I ask of you, when
we are inside the fort at Quebec, is not to gamble or drink or use
profane language, to obey the king, who is represented by Monsieur de
Lauson and myself, to say your prayers, and to attend mass regularly.
And your friend, the Chevalier?"
"On my word of honor, he laughed at a jest of mine not half an hour
ago.  Oh, we shall have him in his boots again ere we see land.  If we
are a big family, as you say, Major, will you not always have a
fatherly eye upon my friend?  He survives a mighty trouble.  His heart
is like a king's purse, full of gold that rings sound and true.  Only
give him a trial, and he will prove his metal.  I know what lieutenants
and corporals are.  Sometimes they take delight in pricking a fallen
lion.  Let his orders come from you till he has served his time."
"And you?"
"I have nothing to ask for myself."
"Monsieur, no man need ask favors of me.  Let him not shirk his duty,
and the Chevalier's days shall be as peaceful as may be.  And if he
serves his time in the company, why, he shall have his parcel of land
on the Great River.  I shall not ask you any questions.  His past
troubles are none of my affairs.  Let him prove a man.  I ask no more
of him than that.  Father Chaumonot has told me that Monsieur le
Marquis has given a thousand livres to the cause.  The Chevalier will
stand in well for the first promotion."
"Thank you, Major.  It is nine.  I will go and compose verses till
noon."
"And I shall arrange for some games this afternoon, feats of strength
and fencing.  I would that my purse were heavy enough to offer prizes."
"Amen to that."
The major watched the poet as he made for the main cabin.  "So the
Chevalier has a heart of gold?" he mused.  "It must be rich, indeed, if
richer than this poet's.  He's a good lad, and his part in life will
have a fine rounding out."
Victor passed into the cabin and seated himself at the table in the
main cabin.  Occasionally he would nod approvingly, or rumple the
feathery end of the quill between his teeth, or drum with his fingers
in the effort to prove a verse whose metrical evenness did not quite
satisfy his ear.  There were obstacles, however, which marred the
sureness of his inspiration.  First it was the face of madame as he had
seen it, now here, now there, in sunshine, in cloud.  Was hers a heart
of ice which the warmth of love could not melt?  Did she love another?
Would he ever see her again?  Spain!  Ah, but for the Chevalier he
might be riding at her side over the Pyrenees.  The pen moved
desultorily.  Line after line was written, only to be rejected.  The
envoi first took shape.  It is a peculiar habit the poet has of
sometimes putting on the cupola before laying the foundation of his
house of fancy.  Victor read over slowly what he had written:
  "Prince, where is the tavern's light that cheers?
  Where is La Place with its musketeers,
  Golden nights and the May-time breeze?
  And where are the belles of the balconies?"
Ah, the golden nights, indeed!  What were they doing yonder in Paris?
Were they all alive, the good lads in his company?  And how went the
war with Spain?  Would the ladies sometimes recall him in the tennis
courts?  With a sigh he dipped the quill in the inkhorn and went on.
The truth is, the poet was homesick.  But he was not alone in this
affliction.
Breton was sitting by the port-hole in his master's berthroom.  He was
reading from his favorite book.  Time after time he would look toward
the bunk where the Chevalier lay dozing.  Finally he closed the book
and rose to gaze out upon the sea.  In fancy he could see the hills of
Périgny.  The snow had left them by now.  They were green and soft,
rolling eastward as far as the eye could see.  Old Martin's daughter
was with the kine in the meadows.  The shepherd dog was rolling in the
grass at her feet.  Was she thinking of Breton, who was on his way to a
strange land, who had left her with never a good by to dull the edge of
separation?  He sobbed noiselessly.  The book slipped from his fingers
to the floor, and the noise of it brought the Chevalier out of his
gentle dreaming.
"Is it you, lad?"
"Yes, Monsieur Paul," swallowing desperately.
"What is the matter?"
"I was thinking how the snow has left the hills of Périgny.  I can see
my uncle puttering in the gardens at the château.  Do you remember the
lilacs which grew by the western gates?  They will soon be filling the
park with fragrance.  Monsieur will forgive me for recalling?"
"Yes; for I was there in my dreams, lad.  I was fishing for those
yellow perch by the poplars, and you were baiting my hooks."
"Was I, Monsieur?" joyfully.  "My mother used to tell me that it was a
sign of good luck to dream of fishing.  Was the water clear?"
"As clear as Monsieur le Cure's emerald.  Do you remember how he used
to twist it round and round when he visited the château?  It was a fine
ring.  The Duchesse d'Aiguillon gave it to him, so he used to tell us.
'Twas she who founded the Hôtel Dieu at Quebec, where we are going."
"Yes; and in the month of May, which is but a few days off, we used to
ride into Cévennes to the mines of porphyry and marbles which . . .
which . . ."  Breton stopped, embarrassed.
"Which I used to own," completed the Chevalier.  "They were quarries,
lad, not mines.  'Golden days, that turn to silver, then to lead,'
writes Victor.  Eh, well!  Do you know how much longer we are to remain
upon this abominable sea?  This must be something like the eighteenth
of April."
"The voyage has been unusually prosperous, Captain Bouchard says.  We
sight Acadia in less than twenty days.  It will be colder then, for
huge icebergs come floating about in the water.  We shall undoubtedly
reach Quebec by June.  The captain says that it is all nonsense about
pirates.  They never come so far north as this.  I wonder if roses grow
in this new country?  I shall miss the lattice-covered summer-house."
"There will be roses, Breton, but the thorns will be large and fierce.
A month and a half before we reach our destination!  It is very long."
"You see, Monsieur, we sail up a river toward the inland seas.  If we
might sail as we sail here, it would take but a dozen days to pass
Acadia.  But they tell me that this river is a strange one.  Many rocks
infest it, and islands grow up or disappear in a night."
The Chevalier fingered the quilt and said nothing.  By and by his eyes
closed, and Breton, thinking his master had fallen asleep, again picked
up his book.  But he could not concentrate his thought upon it.  He was
continually flying over the sea to old Martin's daughter, to the grey
château nestling in the green hills.  He was not destined long to
dream.  There was a rap on the door, and Brother Jacques entered.
"My son," he said to Breton, "leave us."
CHAPTER XIII
TEN THOUSAND LIVRES IN A POCKET
The Chevalier, who had merely closed his eyes, opened them and looked
up inquiringly.  "Breton," he said, "return in half an hour."  Breton
laid aside his book and departed.  "Now, my father and my brother,"
began the Chevalier lightly, "what is it you have to say to me the
importance of which necessitates the exclusion of my servant?"
"I wish to do you a service, Monsieur."
"That is kind of you.  And what may this service be?"
"A simple warning."
"Ah!"
"The Comte d'Hérouville has no love for you."
"Nor I for him."  The Chevalier drew the coverlet to his chin and
stared through the square port-hole.
"When we land you will still be weak."
"Not so weak that I can not stand."
"All this means that you will fight him?"
"It does."
"A woman?"
"A woman, a vulgar jest and a glass of wine.  Monsieur le Comte and
myself have been forbidden to meet under the pain of indefinite
imprisonment.  Yonder it will be different."
"Mademoiselle de Longueville . . ."
"Has forgotten the incident, as I had, till D'Hérouville came on board
in search of some woman.  Monsieur de Saumaise played him a trick of
some kind, and I stepped between."
"Can you be dissuaded?"
"Not the smallest particle.  I shall be strong, never fear."
"I am drawn toward you, Monsieur.  I am a priest, but I love courage
and the unconfused mind which accompanies it.  You are a brave man."
"I?" humorously.
"Yes.  Who has heard you complain?"
"Against what?"  The Chevalier had propped himself on his elbow.
The Jesuit closed his lips and shook his head.
"Against what?" with piercing eyes.  "Did I speak strange words when
fever moved my tongue?"
"No, Monsieur."
"You have said too much or too little," sharply.
"I have heard of Monsieur d'Hérouville; he is not a good man."
"Against what did I not complain?" insistently.
"Against the misfortune which brought you here," lowly.
"You know? . . .  From whom?" drawing his tongue across his parched
lips.
"I have done wrong to excite you.  There were words passed to and fro
that morning at the Corne d'Abondance.  Need I say more?  Monsieur de
Saumaise knows, and the vicomte; why should you fear me, who have
nothing but brotherly love for you?"
"What is your name?" sinking wearily back among the pillows.
"Father Jacques, or Brother Jacques, familiarly."
"I mean your worldly name."
"I have almost forgotten it," evasively.
"You have not always been a priest?"
"Since I was eighteen."  Silence.  "Have you anything on your mind of
which you wish to be relieved?"
"Nothing.  One can not confess who is no nearer God than I."
"Hush!  That is blasphemy."
"I am sorely tried."
"Your trials are but a pebble on the sea's floor.  Always remember
that, Monsieur; it will make the days less dark.  No matter how much
you may suffer in the days to come, do not forget that at one time you
enjoyed to the full all worldly pleasures; that to you was given the
golden key of life as you loved it.  Thousands have been denied these,
and your sufferings compared to theirs is as a child's plaint compared
to a man's agony.  God has some definite purpose in crossing our paths.
Have patience."
"You, too, have suffered?" interestedly.  Those almost incredible
eyes,--what mystery lurked in their abysmal greys?  "You, too, have
suffered?" the Chevalier repeated.
"I?"  A shiver ran over Brother Jacques's frame; his form shook and
vibrated like a harpstring rudely struck.  "Yes, I have suffered; but
God is applying a remedy called forgetfulness.  They will carry you up
to the deck this afternoon?"
"Yes.  I am told that there are to be games."
Here Breton returned, followed by Victor, who carried a roll of paper
in his hand.  Brother Jacques pressed the poet's arm affectionately.
He had grown to love this youth whose cheeriness and amiability never
left him.
"Paul, my boy," said Victor, when the priest had gone, "I have started
a ballade of double refrain."
"Is it gay, lad?"  The Chevalier was glad to see his friend.  There was
no mystery here; he could see to the bottom of this well.
"Not so gay as it might be, nor so melancholy as I strove to make it.
Frankly, I was a trifle homesick this morning.  There was something in
the air which recalled to me the Loire in the springtime."
The Chevalier looked at Breton, who flushed.  "Homesick, eh?" he said.
"Well, don't be ashamed of it, Victor; Breton here was moping but half
an hour ago over the hills of Périgny.  And, truth to tell, so was I."
"Ha!" cried the poet with satisfaction, "that sounds like Paul of old."
"What are the games this afternoon?" asked the Chevalier.  "Will there
be foils?"
"Yes."  Victor straightened out his papers and cleared his voice.
"And you will take part?"
"Certainly."
"Does the vicomte enter the bouts?"
"He does.  I daresay that we shall come together."
"I had rather you would decline," said the Chevalier.
"What! not to face him with the foils?"
"He is a better fencer than you, Victor; and to witness your defeat
would be no less a humiliation to me than to you.  You can reasonably
decline."
"And have that boor D'Hérouville laugh?  No!  Let him give me the
chance, and I will give him the back of my hand.  Hang it, Paul, what
made you interfere?"
"I have a prior claim.  You recollect it well enough.  He spoke lightly
of the conduct of Mademoiselle de Longueville, and I threw a glass of
champagne in his face.  You had best decline to measure swords with the
vicomte."
"Horns of Panurge!  Some of these broken gentlemen doubt my ability.
Besides, I may learn something of the vicomte's strength.  I wonder
what it is: when I am out of his presence I dislike him; when he
approaches me, my dislike melts in the air."
"Read me what you have written," resignedly.
"I have polished only the third stanza and the envoi.  I will read
these to you; and tell me where it lacks smoothness."
  "Beatrice is vanished and with her her smiles;
    Others shall kiss away Henriette's tears,
  Others surrender to Marguerite's wiles:
    Where is La Place with its musketeers?
    Oh, but the days they shall lengthen to years
  Ere I return o'er these pathless seas,
    Carried wherever the Pilot steers!
  And where are the belles of the balconies?
  "Prince, where is the tavern's light that cheers?
  Where is La Place with its musketeers,
  Golden nights and the May-time breeze?
  And where are the belles of the balconies?"
"That will do very well," was the Chevalier's comment.  His thought was
carried back, even as the poet's, to La Place Royale.  "Read the whole
of it, even if it be in the rough.  It will divert me."  And,
listening, he watched his garments swinging to and fro from the hook,
particularly the grey cloak.  It held a strange fascination.
"Monsieur improves constantly," observed Breton, soberly.
Victor laughed, and began explaining the difficulty of constructing a
ballade of double refrain, when a hand fell upon the door.
"Enter," called the Chevalier, listlessly.
The door opened and the vicomte came in.  Great good nature beamed from
his countenance.  His strong white teeth displayed themselves in a
smile.
"And how are you this morning, Chevalier?" he inquired.
"Only a little more thickness to my blood," returned the Chevalier,
smiling with equal good nature, "and I shall be able to stand up and
look into your eyes.  Help yourself to a stool.  It is good to be ill
once in a while, if only to test one's friendships.  I am feeling
vastly better.  Let me thank you for your kindness during the crisis."
"Don't speak of it, Chevalier.  It is with great happiness that I see
you on the highway to complete recovery.  There was a time when we
feared for you."  The vicomte took advantage of the Chevalier's
courtesy and drew forward the remaining stool.  "I would that you were
well enough to take part in the bouts this afternoon.  I was in the
Academy that morning when you disarmed Comminges.  La! but the
lieutenant was a most surprised man when his sword went rolling to the
mat."
"It was merely an accident, Vicomte," deprecatingly.  "Monsieur de
Comminges slipped, and I took advantage of his mishap, which I should
not have done."
Victor's eyebrows arched.  He had witnessed the match, and knew that
the Chevalier had executed an amazing stroke.
"You are too modest, Chevalier," replied the vicomte.  "I learn that
you have entered the bouts, my poet.  I tried to interest D'Hérouville,
but he declined.  He goes about like a moping owl, watching ever for a
returning ship which he may hail."
"We shall probably come together," said Victor.
"And I was just telling him, Vicomte," put in the Chevalier, "to
decline to measure foils with so hardy a swordsman as yourself.  You
are taller, your weight is greater, and your reach is longer.  How
monotonous to lie here, weak and useless!"
"Monsieur de Saumaise may withdraw with all honor," said the vicomte.
"You are very discouraging, Paul," and Victor stuffed his poem into his
doublet.  "Still, what you advance is in the main true.  But every man
has a certain trick of his own which he has worked out all by himself,
regardless of rules, in defiance of the teachings of the
fencing-master.  Perhaps I have one which the vicomte is not familiar
with."
"I hope so," said the Chevalier.
"Doubtless he has," added the vicomte.
At four the fencing bouts began between the gentlemen.  There were some
exciting contests, but ere half an hour was gone the number had
resolved itself into two, Victor and the vicomte.
"Well, Monsieur," said the latter, pleasantly, "suppose we share the
laurels?"
"We shall, with your permission, make the victory more definite,"
replied the poet, testing his foil and saluting the ladies above.
"As you please," and the vicomte stepped into position.
It was a pretty exhibition.  For a long time it seemed that neither
Victor nor the vicomte had any advantage.  What Victor lacked in reach
and height he made up in agility.  He was as light on his feet as a
cat.  In and out he went, round and round; twice his button came within
an inch of the vicomte's breast.  The second round brought no
conclusion.  As the foils met in the third bout, the vicomte spoke.
"Now, Monsieur," he said, but in so low a tone that only Victor heard
him, "take care.  You have made a brave showing, and, on my word, you
hold a tolerable blade for a poet.  Now then!"
Victor smiled, but a moment later his smile died away, and he drew his
lips inward with anxiety.  He felt a new power in the foil slithering
up and down his own.  Suddenly a thousand needles stung his wrist: his
foil lay rolling about the deck.  The vicomte bowed jestingly, stepped
forward and picked up the foil, presenting it to its owner.  Again they
resumed guard.  Quick as light the vicomte's foil went almost double
against the poet's doublet.  From this time on the poet played warily.
He maintained a splendid defense, so splendid that doubt began to
gather in the vicomte's eyes.  Twice Victor stooped and his foil slid
under the vicomte's guard, touching him roughly on the thigh, But
Victor was fighting against the inevitable.  Gradually the vicomte
broke down the defense, and again Victor's foil was wrested from his
grasp.  The contest came to an end, with seven points for the vicomte
and two for the poet.  The vicomte was loudly applauded, as was due a
famous swordsman and a hail-fellow.
The Chevalier, who had followed each stroke with feverish eyes, sighed
with chagrin.  There were three strokes he had taught Victor, and the
poet had not used one of them.
"Why did you let those opportunities pass?" he asked, petulantly.
"Some day I may need those strokes.  The vicomte does not know that I
possess them."  Victor smiled; then he frowned.  "He is made of iron;
he is a stone wall; but he is not as brilliant and daring as you are,
Paul."
"Let us prolong the truce indefinitely," said the vicomte, later.
Victor bowed without speaking.  The courtesy had something
non-committal in it, and it did not escape the keen eye of the vicomte.
"Monsieur, you are the most gallant poet I know," and the vicomte
saluted gravely.
They were becalmed the next day and the day following.  The afternoon
of the second day promised to be dull and uninteresting, but grew
suddenly pregnant with possibilities when the Comte d'Hérouville
addressed the vicomte with these words: "Monsieur, I should like to
speak to the Chevalier du Cévennes.  Will you take upon yourself the
responsibility of conducting me to his cabin?  It is not possible for
me to ask the courtesy of Monsieur de Saumaise.  My patience becomes
strained at the sight of him."
"Certainly, Monsieur," answered the vicomte, pleasantly, though the
perpendicular line above his nose deepened.  "I dare venture that the
matter concerns the coming engagement at Quebec, and you desire a
witness."
"Your surmise is correct.  I do not wish to take advantage of him.  I
wish to know if he believes he will be in condition."
"Follow me."  The vicomte started toward the companionway.
The Chevalier lay in his bunk, in profound slumber.  Breton was dozing
over his Rabelais.  The clothes on the hooks moved but slightly.  As
the two visitors entered, the lackey lifted his head and placed a
finger against his lips.
"He sleeps?" whispered the vicomte.
Breton nodded, eying d'Hérouville with disapproval.
The vicomte stared at the wan face on the pillow.  He shrugged his
shoulders, and there was an essence of pity in the movement.  Meanwhile
the count gazed with idle curiosity at the partitions.  He saw the
Chevalier's court rapier with its jeweled hilt.  The Chevalier's
grandsire had flaunted the slender blade under the great Constable's
nose in the days of Henri II.  There had been a time when he himself
had worn a rapier even more valuable; but the Jews had swallowed it
even as the gaming tables had swallowed his patrimony.  Next he
fingered the long campaign rapier, and looked away as if trying to
penetrate the future.  A sharp gasp slipped past his lips.
"Boy," he said lowly and with apparent calm, "was not that a ship
passing?"
Breton looked out of the port-hole.  As he did so the count grasped the
vicomte's arm.  The vicomte turned quickly, and for the first time his
eyes encountered the grey cloak.  His breath came sharply, while his
hand stretched forth mechanically and touched the garment, sinister and
repelling though it was.  There followed his touch a crackling sound,
as of paper.  D'Hérouville paled.  On the contrary, the vicomte smiled.
"Messieurs," said Breton, "your eyes deceived you.  The horizon is
clear.  But take care, or you will have monsieur's clothes from the
hooks."
"Tell your master," said the vicomte, "that we shall pay him a visit
later, when he wakes."  He opened the door, and followed D'Hérouville
out.
Once outside the two men gazed into each other's eyes.  Each sought to
discover something that lay behind.
"The cloak!"  D'Hérouville ran his fingers through his beard.  "The
Chevalier has never searched the pockets."
"Let us lay the matter before him and acquaint him with our
suspicions," said the vicomte, his eyes burning.  "His comrade's danger
is common to both of us.  We will ask the Chevalier for his word, and
he will never break it."
"No! a thousand devils, no!  Place my neck under his heel?  Not I."
"You have some plan?"
"Beaufort offers five thousand livres for that paper, and Gaston will
give five thousand more to have proof that it is destroyed.  That is
ten thousand, Monsieur."
"Handsome!"
"And I offer to share with you."
"You do not need money, Monsieur."
"I?  The Jews have me tied in a thousand knots!" replied the count,
bitterly.
"I am not the least inclined toward partnership.  You must manoeuver to
reach the inside of that cloak before I do.  There is nothing more to
be said, Monsieur."
"Take care!" menacingly.
"Faith!  Monsieur," the vicomte said, coolly, "my sword is quite as
long as yours.  And there is the Chevalier.  You must fight him first."
"And if you find the paper?" forcing a calm into his tones.
"I shall take the next ship back to France.  I will see Beaufort and
Gaston, and the bubble will be pricked."
"Perhaps you may never return."
"As to that, we shall see.  Come, is there not something more than ten
thousand livres behind that paper?"
"You banter.  I do not understand."
"Is not madame's name there?"
"Well?"
"She is a widow, young, beautiful, and rich.  And this incriminating
signature of hers,--what a fine thing it would be to hold over her
head!  She is a woman, and a woman is easily duped in all things save
love."
D'Hérouville trembled.  "You are forcing war."
"So be it," tranquilly.  "I will make one compact with you; if I find
the paper I will inform you.  Will you accept a like?"
"Yes."
"Good.  Now, then, once in Paris, I will stake ten thousand livres
against your tentative claims to madame's hand.  We will play at
vingt-et-un.  That is true gambling, Monsieur, and you are a good
judge."
"I pick up the gauntlet with pleasure, under all conditions.  Besides,
an idea has occurred to me.  The paper may not be what we think it is.
The man who killed De Brissac is not one to give up or throw away the
rewards.  Eh, Monsieur?"
"Perhaps he was pressed for time.  His life perhaps depended upon his
escape.  He may have dropped the cloak," shrewdly, "and some friend
found it and returned it to the Chevalier.  A plausible supposition, as
you will agree."
"You may tell me a lie," said D'Hérouville, thoughtfully.
"It would not be necessary, Monsieur le Comte," returned the vicomte,
suggestively tapping his sword.
CHAPTER XIV
BRETON FINDS A MARKER FOR HIS COPY OF RABELAIS
After the calm the storm came, after the storm the rough winds and
winnowed skies.  At one moment the ship threatened to leap to heaven,
at another, to plunge down to the sea's floor.  Breton had a time of it
one afternoon in the cabin.  He was buffeted about like maize in a
heated pan.  He fell, and in trying to save himself he clutched at the
garments hanging from the hooks.  The cloth gave.  The pommel of the
Chevalier's rapier hit him in the forehead, cutting and dazing him.  He
rose, staggering, and indulged in a little profanity which made him
eminently human.  One by one he gathered up the fallen garments and
cloaks.  It was haphazard work: for now the floor was where the
partition had been, and the ceiling where the bunk had stood.  Keys had
rolled from the Chevalier's pockets--keys, coins, and rings; and Breton
scrambled and slid around on his hands and knees till he had recovered
these treasures, which he knew to be all his master had.  He thought of
the elegant rubies and sapphires and topaz of the garters he had
ordered for his master but four months gone.  And that mysterious lady
of high degree?  Paris!  Alas, Paris was so far away that he, Breton,
was like to see it never again.
He stood up, balanced himself, and his eye caught sight of the grey
cloak, which lay crumpled under the bunk.
"Ah! so it is you, wretched cloak, that gave way when I clung to you
for help?"  He stooped and dragged it forth by its skirts.  "So it was
you?" swinging it fiercely above his head and balancing himself nicely.
The bruise on his forehead made him savage.  "Whatever made me bring
you to the Corne d'Abondance?  What could you not tell, if voice were
given to you?  And Monsieur Paul used to look so fine in it!  You make
me cold in the spine!"  He shook it again and again, then hung it up by
the torn collar, which had yielded over-readily to his frenzied grasp.
As the ache in his head subsided, so diminished the strength of his
wrath; and he went out to ask the Chevalier if he should keep the
valuables in his own pocket or replace them in the pocket of the
pantaloons from which they had fallen.  The Chevalier took the rings
and slipped them on his fingers, all save the signet ring, which he
handed to his lackey.
"Keep this, lad, till I ask for it," was all he said.
Breton put the ring in the little chamois bag which his mother had
given him.  The ring rattled against a little silver crucifix.  The lad
then returned to the cabin and read his favorite book till his eyes
grew weary.  He looked about for a marker and espied some papers on the
floor.  These he thrust into his place and fell to dreaming.
Each afternoon the Chevalier was carried up to the deck; and what with
the salt air and the natural vigor which he inherited from his father,
the invalid's bones began to take on flesh and his interest in life
became normal.  It is true that when left alone a mask of gloom
shadowed his face, and his thin fingers opened and closed nervously and
unconsciously.  Diane, Diane, Diane!  It was the murmur of far-off
voices, it was the whisper of the winds in the shrouds, it was the cry
of the lonely gull and the stormy petrel.  To pass through the weary
years of his exile without again seeing that charming face, finally to
strive in vain to recall it in all its perfect beauty!  This thought
affected him more than the thought of the stigma on his birth.  That he
could and would live down; he was still a man, with a brain and a heart
and a strong arm.  But Diane!
The Comte d'Hérouville, for some reason best known to himself, appeared
to be acting with a view toward partial conciliation.  The Chevalier
did not wholly ignore this advance.  D'Hérouville would fight fair as
became a gentleman, and that was enough.  Since they were soon to set
about killing each other, what mattered the prologue?
The vicomte watched this play, and it caused him to smile.  He knew the
purpose of these advances: it was to bring about the freedom of the
Chevalier's cabin.  As yet neither he nor the count had found the
golden opportunity.  The Chevalier was never asleep or alone when they
knocked at the door of his cabin.
Each day D'Hérouville approached the Chevalier when the latter was on
deck.
"You are improving, Monsieur?" was the set inquiry.
"I am gaining every hour, Monsieur," always returned the invalid.
"That is well;" and then D'Hérouville would seek some other part of the
ship.  He ignored Victor as though he were not on board.
"Victor, you have not yet told me who the woman in the grey mask was,"
said the Chevalier.
"Bah!" said Victor, with fictitious nonchalance.
"She is fleeing from some one?"
"That may be."
"Who is she?" directly.
"I regret that I must leave you in the dark, Paul."
"But you said that you knew something of her history; and you can not
know that without knowing her name."
Victor remained silent.
"Somehow," went on the Chevalier, "that grey mask continually intrudes
into my dreams."
"That is because you have been ill, Paul."
"Is she some prince's light-o'-love?"
"She is no man's light-o'-love.  Do not question me further.  I may
tell you nothing.  She is a fugitive from the equivocal justice of
France."
"Politics?"
"Politics."
"She comes from a good family?"
"So high that you would laugh were I to tell you."
"As she left the private assembly that night I caught the odor of
vervain.  Perhaps that is what printed her well upon my mind."
"Pretend to yourself that it was attar of roses, and forget her.  She
will never enter into your life, my good comrade."
"I am merely curious, indifferently curious.  It is something to talk
about.  I daresay that she is pretty.  Homely women never flee from
anything but mirrors."
"And homely men," laughed the poet.  "I am going to see Bouchard for a
moment."
Du Puys, D'Hérouville and the vicomte drew their stools around the
Chevalier, and discussed politics, religion, and women.
"Why is it that women intrigue?" asked the Chevalier, recalling the
grey mask.  "Is it because they wish the great to smile on them?"
"No," replied the vicomte; "rather that they wish to smile on the
great.  Women love secret power, that power which comes from behind the
puppet-booth.  A man must stand before his audience to appear as great;
woman becomes most powerful when her power is not fully known.  The
king's mistress has ever been the mistress of the king."
"And Marie de Touchet?" asked Du Puys.
"Charles IX was not a fool; he was mad."  D'Hérouville smoothed his
beard.
Presently the Chevalier said to the vicomte: "Monsieur, will you be so
kind as to seek my lackey?  I am growing chilly and desire a shawl or a
cloak."
"I will gladly seek him," said the vicomte, flashing a triumphant look
at D'Hérouville, whose face became dark.
"Permit me to accompany you," requested the count.
"The vicomte will do, Monsieur," interposed the Chevalier, wonderingly.
The vicomte passed down the companionway and disappeared.  He stopped
before the Chevalier's cabin and knocked.  The sound of his knuckles
was as thunder in his ears.  Breton opened the door, rubbing his eyes.
"Your master, my lad, has sent me for his grey cloak.  Will you give it
to me to carry to him?"
"The grey cloak?" repeated Breton, greatly astonished.
"Yes.  Be quick about it, as your master complains of the cold."
"Why, Monsieur Paul has not touched the grey cloak . . ."
"Must I get it myself?  Be quick!"  The vicomte was pale with
excitement and impatience.
Breton, without further parley, took down the cloak and passed it over
to the vicomte.
"Monsieur will find the collar badly torn," he said.
"If he changes his mind, I will return shortly;" and the vicomte threw
the cloak over his arm, left the cabin, and closed the door.
Breton wiped his hands on his breeches as if to wipe away the
contaminating touch of the cloak.  His eyes were bothering him of late,
and he had not read from his favorite book since he left Panurge
hunting for the prophetess.  Being now awake and having nothing to do,
he took down his master's sword and began polishing the blade.  He had
scarce begun his labor when the door opened and the vicomte stood on
the threshold.
"My lad," he said, quietly, "you were right.  Your master wants the
purple cloak.  I was wrong."
Without replying, Breton hung up the grey cloak and took down another.
"Is Monsieur le Vicomte seasick?" he asked.
"It is hunger, lad, which makes me pale."
As the vicomte reappeared upon deck, he saw D'Hérouville biting his
nails.  He met the questioning glance, and laughed coldly and
mirthlessly.
"Chevalier," said the vicomte, "your lackey handed me the grey cloak
first."
"The grey cloak?"
"Yes; but I recalled its history, and returned with this.  Hang me, but
you have a peculiar fancy.  In your place, I should have burned that
cloak long ago."
D'Hérouville looked interested.
"I have a morbid fancy for that cloak," returned the Chevalier.  "I
want it always with me.  Murder will out, and that garment will some
day . . .  No matter."
"Have you ever searched the pockets?" asked D'Hérouville, in a quiet,
cool tone.
The vicomte's eyes brightened.  There was good metal in this
D'Hérouville.
"Searched the pockets?" said the Chevalier.  "Not I!  I have not
touched the cloak since I last wore it.  I never expect to touch it.
Vicomte, thank you for your trouble."  The Chevalier threw the cloak
around his shoulders and closed his eyes.  The wind, blowing forcefully
and steadily into his face produced a drowsiness.
Du Puys looked from one to the other.  A grey cloak?  All this was
outside the circle of his understanding.  When Victor returned the old
soldier rose and made his way to the cabin.  As he disappeared,
D'Hérouville moved toward the wheel.  From time to time he looked back
at the vicomte, but that gentleman purposely refused to acknowledge
these glances.
"Chevalier," he said, "you know why our poet here and myself are upon
this ship: a certain paper, ten by twelve inches, stands between us and
the block."
"Ah!"  The Chevalier opened his eyes.
"Yes.  Has it ever occurred to you, my poet, to investigate Monsieur le
Chevalier's grey cloak; that is to say, search its pockets?"
Victor smothered an oath and thwacked his thigh.  "Horns of Panurge!"
softly.
"Then you have not.  It would be droll if our salvation was
accompanying us to the desert."  The vicomte was up and heading toward
D'Hérouville.
"Victor, lad," said the Chevalier, "go you and see if there is anything
in the pockets of that grey cloak."
"Well, Monsieur?" said D'Hérouville, eagerly.
"There is a ghost upon the ship," replied the vicomte.
"You have secured the papers?"
"Papers?" with elevated brows.  "Is there more than one, then?" the
vicomte's tone hardening.
"Paper or papers, it matters not; I was speaking only in a general way."
"Do you recall that when I touched that cloak it gave forth a crackling
sound as of paper?"
"It was paper," said the count impatiently.  What was this man
D'Halluys driving at?
"Well, as I said;" and the vicomte twisted the ends of his mustache and
gnawed it between his teeth.  "There is a ghost upon this ship.  There
was nothing in that pocket, not even a piece of paper as large as your
thumb-nail."
"You lie!" roughly.
Their faces came close together.
"If Monsieur le Chevalier leaves enough of you, Monsieur," said the
vicomte.  His tone was gentle.  "When I gave you my word it was given
honestly, without reservation.  There were no papers in that cloak.
Some one has gone before us, or rather, some one has gone before me.
You spoke of papers: what gave you to believe there was more than one?
Monsieur, is not the lie on your side?  Have you not had access to the
Chevalier's room?  You say that I lie; is not your own tongue crooked?
Besides, let us not forget the poet, who, while he may be unaware of
the commercial value of that paper, has no less an interest in it.  You
have given me the lie: go about your affairs as you please, and I shall
do likewise.  When we land, if the Chevalier does not kill you, I will."
"Why?"
"You tell me that I lie."
"Bah!  Monsieur, under all circumstances there would be cause for war
between us.  Do you not love Madame de Brissac?  Heigho! she has given
the motley to us all.  Are we not fine fools?  It is droll.  Well, I
will write the Chevalier's discharge, and you shall go out by the same
order.  We are all cats in the bags, and some of us are likely to be
scratched."
"It will be an exciting day, no doubt;" and the vicomte turned on his
heel.
"There was nothing in the pockets of the cloak," said Victor, a while
later.
On the second day of June the Saint Laurent dropped anchor before
Quebec.  The voyage had come to an end, and a prosperous voyage,
indeed.  There had been only one death at sea; they had encountered
neither the Spaniard nor the outlaw; the menace of ice they had slipped
past.  What a welcome was roared to them from Fort Louis, from the
cannon and batteries, high up on the cliffs!  The echoes rolled across
the river and were lost in the mighty forests beyond.  Again and again
came the flash, and the boom.  It was wondrous to see the fire and
smoke so far above one's head.  Flags fluttered in the sunshine; all
labor was stopped, and the great storehouses were closed for the
remainder of the day.  Canoes filled with peaceful Hurons sallied
forth, and the wharves were almost blotted out of sight with crowding
humanity.
Many notable faces could be identified here and there among the
pressing throng on the wharves.  Some were there to meet friends or
relatives; some wanted the news from France; some came for mail to be
delivered to the various points along the river.  Prominent among them
was Governor Lauson, a grey-haired, kindly civilian, who, though a
shrewd speculator, was by no means the man to be at the head of the
government in Canada.  He was pulled this way and that, first by the
Company, then by the priests, then by the seigneurs.  Depredations by
the Indians remained unpunished; and the fear of the great white father
grew less and less.  Surrounding Monsieur de Lauson was his staff and
councillors, and the veterans Du Puys had left behind while in France.
There were names which in their time were synonyms for courage and
piety.  The great Jesuits were absent in the south, in Onondaga, where
they had erected a mission: Father Superior le Mercier, and Fathers
Dablon and Le Moyne.
Immediately on landing, Father Chaumonot made a sign, and his sea-weary
voyagers fell upon their knees and kissed the earth.  New France!
"Now," said Victor, shaking himself, "let us burn up the remaining
herrings and salt codfish.  I see yonder a gentleman with a haunch of
venison on his shoulder."
"One would think that you had had no duck or deer since we passed
Acadia," laughed Du Puys.  "But, patience, lad; Monsieur de Lauson
invites all the gentlemen to the Fort at six to partake of his table.
You have but four hours to wait for a feast such as will make your
Paris eyes bulge."
"Praise be!"
As he breathed in the resinous, balsamic perfume which wafted across
the mighty river from the forests and the river-rush; as his eye
traveled up the glorious promontory, now mellowed in sunshine, to the
summit bristling with cannon; as his gaze swept the broad reaches of
the river, and returned to rest upon the joyous faces around him,
joyous even in the face of daily peril, the Chevalier threw back his
shoulders, as if bracing himself for the battle to come.  Here he was
to forget and build anew; France, his mother, was dead, and here was
his foster-mother, rugged and brave, opening her arms to him.  New
France!  Ah, well, there was here, somewhere, a niche for him, and the
man in him vowed to fill it.  He did not yet say "With God's help."  It
was early, and the sting of his misfortune still stirred the poison in
his soul.
"New France, Paul," cried the poet at his side.  The newness and
strangeness of the scene had filled the poet's face with animation.  No
problems beset his buoyant soul.
"Yes, lad; this is New France.  Fortune here seems to be of the
masculine; and I daresay that you and I shall receive many cuffs in the
days to come."
"Come, my friends," said Brother Jacques, "and I will show you the path
which leads to the citadel."
And the three proceeded up the incline.
Sister Benie of the Ursulines was passing along the narrow road which
led to the river.  There was on her serene face the remains of what had
been great beauty, such as is sometimes given to the bourgeois; but the
purple eyes were wells of sadness and the lips ever drooped in pity and
mercy.  Across her pale cheek was a paler scar, which ran from the left
temple to the chin.  Sister Teresa, her companion, was young and plain.
Soldiers and trappers and Indians passed them on the way up, touching
their caps and hats; for Sister Benie was known from Montreal to
Tadousac.  Suddenly Sister Benie gave a low cry and pressed a hand upon
her heart.
"Sister, you are ill?" asked her companion.
"A dizziness; it is gone now."  Presently she caught the arm of a
gentleman who was passing.
"My son," she said, sweetly, "can you tell me who is that young man
walking with Brother Jacques; the tall one?"
"He?  That is the Chevalier du Cévennes."
"His family?"
"He is the son of the Marquis de Périgny."
"Thank you, my son."
CHAPTER XV
THE SUPPER
"Monsieur du Cévennes," said D'Hérouville, just before supper that
first night of their arrival on Canadian soil, "I see that you are not
quite strong enough to keep the engagement.  This day two weeks: will
that be agreeable?"
"It will; though I should be better pleased to fix the scene for
to-morrow morning."
D'Hérouville raised a deprecating hand.  "I should not like to have it
said that I took advantage of a man's weakness.  Of course, if you wish
absolutely to force it . . ."
The Chevalier looked thoughtfully at his pale hands.  "I shall take
advantage of your courtesy, Monsieur le Comte."
"How polite men are when about to cut each other's throats!"  The
Vicomte d'Halluys adjusted his baldric and entered the great
dining-hall of the Château Saint Louis.
He and D'Hérouville sat side by side.
"Vicomte, you have never told me why the Chevalier is here.  Why should
he leave France, he, who possessed a fortune, who had Mazarin's favor,
and who had all the ladies at his feet?"
"Ask him when you meet him," answered the vicomte, testing the
governor's burgundy.
"And will you pay me those ten thousand livres which you wagered
against my claims for madame's hand?"
The vicomte took a sip of the wine.  There was no verbal answer, but
his eyes spoke.
"Quebec promises to afford a variety," commented d'Hérouville, glancing
to where the Chevalier sat.
"It is quite probable," affably returned the vicomte.  "This is good
wine for a wilderness like this.  To be sure, it comes from France; I
had forgotten."
The first fortnight passed with the excitement attendant to taking up
quarters in a strange land.  The Chevalier, Victor and the vicomte were
given rooms in the citadel; D'Hérouville accepted the courtesy of the
governor and became a resident of the château; father Chaumonot, Major
du Puys, and his selected recruits, had already made off for Onondaga.
A word from Father Chaumonot into the governor's ear promoted the
Chevalier to a lieutenancy in lieu of Nicot's absence in Onondaga.
Everything began very well.
Seldom a day went by without a skirmish with the Iroquois, who had
grown impudent and fearless again.  The Iroquois were determined to
destroy their ancient enemies, the Hurons, primarily because they hated
them, and secondarily because they were allies of the French.  France
did what she could in reason to stop these depredations, but the task
needed an iron gauntlet, and De Lauson was a civilian.  At this period
the Mohawks were the fiercest, the Onondagas having agreed to a
temporary treaty.  Marauders were brought in and punished, but usually
the punishment was trivial compared to the offense.  The governor
wished to rule by kindness; but his lieutenants knew the Indian
thoroughly.  He must not be treated with kindness where justice was
merited; it gave him the idea that the white man was afraid.
Therefore, his depredations should be met with a vengeance swift and
final and convincing.  But nine times out of ten De Lauson and the
priests overruled the soldiers; and the depredations continued
unabated.  Once, however, the Chevalier succeeded in having several
gibbets erected on the island of Orléans, and upon these gibbets he
strung half a dozen redskins who had murdered a family of peaceful
Hurons.
Though he went about somberly, untalkative and morose, the Chevalier
proved himself a capital soldier, readily adapting himself to the
privations of scouting and the loneliness of long watches in the night.
He studied his Indian as one who intended to take up his abode among
them for many years to come.  He discarded the uniform for the deerskin
of the trapper.  But the Chevalier made no friends among the
