"Oh, gee, but this is going to be a fight!" was the verdict of every one
of them.
"Marquis of Queensberry rules," said Fischer, in a low tone. "Both know
them?"
Mark nodded.
"Shake hands!"
Mark put out his, by way of answer, and Williams gripped it right
heartily.
"Ready?"
And then the simple word "Go."
Let us gaze about a moment at the scene. The ring is surrounded by
earthworks, now grass-grown and trodden down, unkept since the
Revolutionary days, when West Point was a Gibraltar. Old cannon,
caissons and wagon wheels are scattered about inside, together with
ramparts and wire chevaux-de-friezes which the cadets are practiced in
constructing. In the southwest corner is a small, clear, smooth-trodden
space, where the two brawny, white-skinned warriors stand. The cadets
are forming a ring about them, for every one is too excited to sit down
and keep quiet. The "outlooks," posted for safety, are neglecting their
duty recklessly for the same reason, and looking in altogether. Every
eye is on the two.
Over in Mark's corner sits Texas, gripping his hands in excitement,
wriggling nervously and muttering to himself. Stanard is beside him with
"Dana's Geology" as a cushion. The Parson is a picture of calm and
scholarly dignity, in direct contrast with our friend Texas, who is on
the verge of one of his wild "fits." "Indian" is the fourth and only
other plebe present, and Indian is horrified, as usual, and mutters
"Bless my soul" at intervals.
On the opposite side of the circle of cadets are Jasper and another
second, both breathlessly watching every move. Nearby stands Cadet
Captain Fischer, calm and cool, critically watching the play.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE AFFAIR AT THE FORT.
The two began cautiously, like a pair of skillful generals sending out a
skirmish line to test the enemy's strength and resource. This was no
such battle as Texas', a wild rush, a few mighty blows, and then
victory. Williams was wary as a cat, sparring lightly, and taking no
risks, and the other saw the plan and its wisdom.
"Playing easy," muttered the referee, noting the half minute on his
watch. "Know their business, it seems."
"Wow!" growled Texas. "What's the good o' this yere baby business? Say,
Parson, ain't they never goin' to hit? Whoop!"
This last exclamation was caused by the real beginning of the battle.
Williams saw an unguarded face, and quick as thought his heavy arm shot
out; the crowd gasped, and Mark saw it. A sudden motion of his head to
one side was enough to send the blow past him harmlessly, and a moment
later the yearling's forward plunge was checked by an echoing crack upon
his ribs. Then for the rest of the round the excited cadets were
treated to an exhibition of sparring such as they had never seen in
their lives. Feinting, dodging and parrying, the springing pair seemed
everywhere at once, and their fists in a thousand places. The crowd was
thrilled; even the imperturbable Fischer was moved to exclamation, and
Texas in half a minute had seen more skill than his whole experience had
shown him in his life.
"Look a thar! Look a thar! He's got him--no--gad! Whoop!"
Texas did as much dancing as the fighters themselves, and more talking
than the whole crowd. Captain Fischer had to stop watching him long
enough to tell him that the camp, with its sleeping "tacs," was only a
few yards away. And then, as Powers subsided, the cadet glanced at his
watch, called "Time!" and the two fighters went to their corners,
panting.
"What did ye stop for?" inquired Texas, while the Parson set diligently
to work at bathing several red spots on his friend's body. "What kind o'
fightin' is this yere? Ain't give up, have you? Say, Mark, now go in
nex' time an' do him. What's the use o' layin' off?"
"A very superior exhibition of--lend me that court-plaster,
please--pugilistic ability," commented the Parson, bustling about like
an old hen.
And then a moment later the referee gave the word and they were at it
again.
This round there was no delay; both went at it savagely, though warily
and skillfully as ever. Blow after blow was planted that seemed fairly
to shake the air, driven by all the power that human muscle could give.
"Won't last long at this rate," said the referee, sagely shaking his
head. "Give 'em another round--gee!"
Fischer's "gee" was echoed by the yearlings with what would have, but
for the nearness of the camp, been a yell of triumph and joy. Williams
had seen a chance, and had been a second too quick for Mark; he had
landed a crushing blow upon the latter's head, one which made him
stagger. Quick to see his chance, the yearling had sprung in, driving
his half-dazed opponent backward, landing blow after blow. Texas gasped
in horror. The yearlings danced--and then----
"Time!" said the imperturbable Fischer.
Texas sprang forward and led his bewildered friend to a seat; Texas was
about ready to cry.
"Old man!" he muttered, "don't let him beat you. Oh! It'll be the death
of me. I'll go jump into the river!"
"Steady! Steady!" said the Parson; "we'll be all right in a moment."
Mark said nothing, but as his reeling brain cleared he gritted his
teeth.
"Time," said the referee.
And Williams sprang forward to finish the work, encouraged by the
enthusiastic approval of his half-wild classmates. He aimed another blow
with all his might; Mark dodged; the other tried again, and again the
plebe leaped to one side; this repeated again and again was the story of
the next minute, and the yearlings clinched their hands in
disappointment and rage.
"He's flunking!" cried one of them--Bull Harris--"He's afraid!"
"He's fighting just as he ought," retorted Captain Fischer, "and doing
it prettily, too. Good!"
And then once more the crowd settled into an anxious silence to watch.
The story of that minute was the story of ten. Mark had seen that in
brute force his adversary was his equal, and that skill, coolness and
endurance were to win. He made up his mind on his course, and pursued
it, regardless of the jeers of the yearlings and their advice to Billy
to "go in and finish him off." Billy went, but he could not reach Mark,
and occasionally his ardor would be checked by an unexpected blow which
made his classmates groan.
"It's a test of endurance now," observed Fischer, "and Billy ought to
win. But the plebe holds well--bully shot, by Jove! Mallory's evidently
kept in training. Time!"
That was for the seventh round.
"He's getting madder now," whispered Mark to Stanard, as he sat down to
rest. "He wants to finish. If those fellows keep at him much more he'll
sail in for a finish--and then, well, I'm pretty fresh yet."
Goaded on by his impatient classmates, Williams did "sail in," the very
next round. Mark led him a dance, from corner to corner, dodging,
ducking and twisting, the yearling, thinking the victory his, pressing
closer and closer and aiming blow after blow.
"Watch out, Billy, watch out," muttered the vigilant Fischer to himself,
as he caught the gleam in Mark's eye.
Just then Williams paused, actually exhausted; Mark saw his chest
heaving, and, a still surer sign, his lip trembling.
"Now, then!" whispered the Parson at his back, and Mark sprang forward.
The yearling dodged, Mark followed rapidly. There was a moment of
vicious striking, and then the cadets gasped to see Williams give way.
It was only an inch, but it told the story--Williams was tired. Fischer
gazed at his watch and saw that there was yet half a minute, and at the
same moment he heard a resounding thump. Mark had planted a heavy blow
upon his opponent's chest, he followed almost instantly with another,
and the yearlings groaned.
Williams rallied, and made a desperate fight for his life, but at the
close of that round he was what a professional reporter would have
termed "groggy." He came up weakly at the call.
"Don't be afraid of hitting him," the Parson had said, afraid that
Mark's kind-heartedness would incline him to mercy. "There's too much at
stake. Win, and win in a hurry"--the Parson forgot to be classical when
he was excited.
Obedient to command, Mark set out, though it was evident to him that he
had the fight. While Texas muttered and pranced about for joy, Mark
dealt his opponent another blow which made him stagger; he caught
himself upon one knee, and Mark stepped back and waited for him to rise.
And then suddenly a pair of strong arms were flung about the plebe's
waist and he felt himself shoved hurriedly along; at the same moment a
voice shouted in his ear:
"Run, plebe, run for your life!"
Mark glanced about him in dimly-conscious amazement. He saw that the
ring had melted into a number of cadets, skurrying away in every
direction at the top of their speed. He heard the words, "a tac! a tac!"
and knew the fight had been discovered by an army officer.
A figure dashed up behind Mark and caught him by the arm. It was
Fischer.
"Run for your life! Get in barracks!" he cried.
And with that he vanished, and Mark, obeying, rushed across the cavalry
plain and was soon lying breathless and exhausted in his room, where
the wildly-jubilant Texas joined him a moment later, just as reveille
was sounded.
"Victory! Victory!" he shouted. "Wow!"
And by breakfast time that morning every cadet in the corps was
discussing the fight. And Mark was the hero of the whole plebe class.
CHAPTER XV.
TWO PLEBES IN HOSPITAL.
"Say, tell me, did you do him?"
The speaker was a lad with brown, curly hair and a laughing, merry face,
at present, however, half covered with a swathing of bandages. He was
standing on the steps of the hospital building at West Point, and
regarding with anxiety another lad of about the same age, but taller and
more sturdily built.
"I don't know that I did him," responded Mark--for the one addressed was
he--"I don't know that I can say I did him, but I believe I would have
if the fight hadn't been interrupted."
"Bully, b'gee!" cried the other, excitedly slapping his knee and wincing
with pain afterward. "Gimme your hand! I'm proud of you, b'gee! My
name's Alan Dewey, at your service."
Mark took the proffered hand, smiling at the stranger's joy.
"My success seems to cause you considerable pleasure," he said.
"Yes, b'gee!" exclaimed Dewey, "it does! And to every true and loyal
plebe in the academy. You've brought honor to the name of plebe by
licking the biggest yearling in the place, b'gee, and that means the end
of hazing."
"I'm not so sure of that," said Mark.
"I am," returned the other. "But say, tell me something about the fight.
I wanted to come, only I was shut up in hospital. Did Williams put up a
good one?"
"Splendid," said Mark.
"He ought to. They say he's champion of his class, and an all-round
athlete. But you look as if you could fight some yourself."
"He almost had me beaten once," said Mark. "I thought I was a goner."
"Say, but you're a spunky chap!" remarked Dewey, eying Mark with an
admiring expression. "I don't think there's ever been a plebe dared to
do half what you've done. The whole class is talking about you."
"Is that so?" inquired Mark, laughing. "I didn't mean to do anything
reckless."
"What's the difference," laughed the other, "when you can lick 'em all,
b'gee? I wish I could do it," he added, rather more solemnly. "Then,
perhaps, maybe I wouldn't be the physical wreck that I am."
"You been fighting, too?" inquired Mark, laughing.
"Betcher life, b'gee!" responded the other, emphatically. "Only I wasn't
as clever at it as you."
"Tell me about it," said Mark, with interest.
"It happened last Saturday afternoon, and I've been in hospital ever
since, b'gee. Some of the cadets caught me taking a walk up somewhere
near what they call 'Crow's Nest.' And so they set out to have some fun.
Told me to climb a tree, in the first place. I looked at the tree, and,
b'gee, there wasn't a limb for thirty feet, and the limbs there were
rotten. There was one of 'em, a big, burly fellow with short hair and a
scar on his cheek----"
"Bull Harris!" cried Mark.
"Yes," said Dewey, "that's what they called him--'Bull.'"
"Did you fight with him?"
"Betcher life, b'gee! He tried to make me climb that tree, and, b'gee,
says I, 'I won't, b'gee!' Then I lammed him one in the eye----"
"Bully!" cried Mark, and then he added, "b'gee!" by way of company. "Did
he beat you?"
"Betcher life," cried the other. "That is, the six of 'em did."
"You don't mean to say the crowd attacked you?"
"That's what I said."
"Well, sir!" exclaimed Mark, "the more I hear of that Bull Harris the
bigger coward I find him. It's comforting to know that all the cadets
aren't that way."
"Very comforting!" responded the other, feeling of the bandage on his
swollen jaw. "Very comforting! Reminds me of a story I heard once,
b'gee, of a man who got a thousand dollars' comfort from a railroad for
having his head cut off."
Mark laughed for a moment, and then he fell to tapping the step
thoughtfully with his heel. He was thinking over a plan.
"I don't suppose you've much love for the yearlings," he remarked, at
last.
"Bet cher life not," laughed the other. "I've about as much as a
mother-in-law for a professional joke writer, b'gee! Reminds me of a
story I once heard--but go on; I want to hear what you had to say. Tell
my story later."
"Well, three friends of mine have formed a sort of an informal alliance
for self-defence----"
"Bully, b'gee!" cried Dewey, excitedly.
"And I thought maybe you'd like to----"
"Join? Bet cher life, b'gee! Why didn't you say so before? Whoop!"
And thus it happened that Member Number Five of the West Point
"alliance" was discovered.
"I don't think this famous alliance is going to have much to do at the
start," said Mark, as soon as Master Dewey had recovered from his
excitement, "for I rather fancy the yearlings will leave us alone for a
time."
"Bet cher life, b'gee!" assented the other. "If they don't look out they
won't have time to be sorry."
"B'gee!" added Mark, smiling.
"Do I say that much?" inquired the other, with a laugh. "I suppose I
must, because the fellows have nicknamed me 'B'gee.' I declare I'm not
conscious of saying it. Do I?"
"Bet cher life, b'gee," responded Mark, whereupon his new acquaintance
broke into one of his merry laughs.
"Let's go around to barracks," said Mark, finally--it was then just
after breakfast time. "I expect they'll want me to report for drill. I
thought I'd get off for the morning on the strength of my 'contusions,'
as they call them. But the old surgeon was too sly for me. He patched me
up in a jiffy."
"What was the matter with you?" inquired Dewey, dropping his smile.
"One eye's about half shut, as you see," responded Mark, "and then I had
quite a little cut on the side of my head where Williams hit me once.
Otherwise I am all right--only just a little rocky."
"As the sea captain remarked of the harbor, b'gee," added the other.
"But tell me, how's Williams?"
"Pretty well done up, as the laundryman remarked, to borrow your style
of illustration," Mark responded, laughing. "They had to carry poor
Williams down here. He's in there now being fixed up. And say, you
should have seen how queerly the surgeon looked at us two. He knew right
away what was up, of course, but he never said a word--just entered us
'sick--contusions.' Is that what you were?"
"Bet cher life, b'gee!" responded the other. "But he tried to get me to
tell what was up. He rather suspected hazing, I think. I didn't say
anything, though."
"It would have served some of those chaps just right if you had," vowed
Mark. "You know you could have every one of them expelled."
The two had reached the area of barracks by this time, and hurried over
to reach their rooms before inspection.
"And don't you mention what I've told you about this great alliance to a
soul," Mark enjoined. "We'd have the whole academy about our ears in a
day."
Dewey assented.
"What's the name of it?" he inquired.
"Haven't got any name for it yet," said Mark, "or any leader either, in
fact. We're waiting to get a few more members, enough for a little
excitement. Then we'll organize, elect a leader, swear allegiance, and
you can bet there'll be fun--b'gee!"
"Come up to my room," he added, after a moment's pause, "as soon as you
get fixed up for inspection, and I'll introduce you to the other
fellows."
With which parting word he turned and bounded up the stairs to his own
room.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE PARSON'S INDIGNATION.
Mark found his roommate and faithful second, Texas, busily occupied in
cleaning up for the morning inspection. Texas wasn't looking for Mark;
it had been Texas' private opinion that Mark had earned a week's holiday
by the battle of the morning, and that the surgeon would surely grant
it. When Mark did turn up, however, Texas wasted no time in complaining
of the injustice, but got his friend by the hand in a hurry.
"Ole man," he cried, "I'm proud of you! I ain't had a chance to say how
proud I am!"
"Thanks," said Mark, laughing, "but look out for that sore thumb--and
for mercy's sakes don't slap me on that shoulder again. I'm more
delicate than I look. And say, Texas, I've got a new member for our
secret society--b'gee!"
Texas looked interested.
"He's a pretty game youngster," Mark continued, "for when Bull Harris
and that gang of his tried to haze him, he sailed in and tried to do the
crowd."
"Oh!" cried Texas, excitedly. "Wow! I wish I'd 'a' been there. Say,
Mark, d'ye know I've been a missin' no end o' fun that a'way. Parson had
a fight, an' I didn't see it; you had one daown to Cranston's, an' I
missed that; an' yere's another!"
Texas looked disgusted and Mark burst out laughing.
"'Tain't any fun," growled the former. "But go on, tell me 'bout this
chap. What does he look like?"
"He's not as tall as we," replied Mark, "but he's very good-looking and
jolly. And when he says 'B'gee' and laughs, you can't help laughing with
him. Hello, there's inspection!"
This last remark was prompted by a sharp rap upon the door. The two
sprang up and stood at attention. "Heels together, eyes to the front,
chest out"--they knew the whole formula by this time. And Cadet Corporal
Jasper strode in, found fault with a few things and then went on to
carry death and devastation into the next place.
A few minutes later the Parson strolled in.
"Yea, by Zeus," began he, without waiting for the formality of a
salutation. "Yea, by Apollo, the far-darting, this is indeed an outrage
worthy of the great Achilles to avenge. And I do swear by the bones of
my ancestors, by the hounds of Diana, forsooth even by Jupiter lapis and
the Gemini, that never while I inspire the atmosphere of existence will
I submit myself to so outrageous an imposition----"
"Wow!" cried Texas. "What's up?"
"Sit down and tell us about it," added Mark.
"It is written in the most immortal document," continued the Parson,
without noticing the interruption, "that ever emanated from the mind of
man, the Declaration of Independence (signed, by the way, by an ancestor
of my stepmother), that among the inalienable privileges of man,
co-ordinate with life and liberty itself, is the pursuit of happiness.
And in the name of the Seven Gates of Thebes and the Seven Hills of the
Eternal City, I demand to know what happiness a man can have if all his
happiness is taken from him!"
"B'gee! Reminds me of a story I heard about a boy who wanted to see the
cow jump over the moon on a night when there wasn't any moon, b'gee."
Mark and Texas looked up in surprise and the Parson faced about in
obvious displeasure at the interruption.
"In the name of all the Olympian divinities and the inhabitants of
Charon and the Styx," he cried, angrily, "I demand to know----"
"Come in," said Mark, laughing. "Excuse me for interrupting, Parson, but
this is Mr. Alan Dewey, b'gee, member Number Five of our band of
desperate buccaneers, if you please. Mr. Dewey, allow me to introduce
you to the gentleman who 'reminded' you of that last story, Mr. Peter
Stanard, of Boston, Massachusetts, the cradle of liberty, the nurse of
freedom, and the center and metropolis of the geological universe."
The Parson bowed gravely.
"While I am, together with all true Bostonians, proud of the reputation
which my city has merited, yet I am----"
"Also to Mr. Jeremiah Powers," continued Mark, cutting the Parson off in
his peroration.
"Son o' the Honorable Scrap Powers, o' Hurricane County, Texas," added
Texas, himself.
Young Dewey shook hands all around, and then sat down on the bed,
looking at Mark with a puzzled expression on his face, as much as to
say, "what on earth have I struck--b'gee?" Mark saw his expression and
undertook to inform him, making haste to start before the Parson could
begin again on the relative merits of Boston and the rest of the
civilized universe.
"Powers and Stanard," said he, "are the members of our organization,
together with Indian, the fat boy."
"I see," said Dewey, at the same time thinking what a novel organization
it must be. "There's Indian now."
Indian's round, scared face peered in through the open doorway just
then. He was introduced to Number Five, whereupon Number Five remarked
'Very pleased to meet you, b'gee.' And Indian echoed 'Bless my soul!'
and crept into the room and sat down in an inconspicuous corner.
There was a moment's pause and then the Parson commenced:
"If I remember correctly, we were occupied when last interrupted,
by--ahem! a rather facetious observation upon the subject of our
solitary lunar satellite and quadruped of the genus Bos--occupied I say
in considering the position which the metropolis of Boston has
obtained----"
"Drop Boston!" laughed Mark. "We weren't on Boston anyhow. Boston came
in afterward--as Boston always does, in fact."
"Which reminds me, b'gee," put in the newcomer, "of a story I once heard
of----"
"Drop the story, too!" exclaimed Mark. "I want to know what the Parson
was so indignant about."
"Yes, yes!" put in Texas. "That's what I say, too. And be quick about
it. We've only ten minutes 'fore drill, an' if there's anybody got to be
licked, why, we got to hustle."
"Well," said Stanard, drawing a long breath. "Well! Since it is the
obvious and, in fact, natural desire of the company assembled, so
expressed by them, that I should immediately proceed to a summary and
concise statement of the matter in hand, pausing for no extensive
introductions or formal perorations, but endeavoring assiduously to
impart to my promulgations a certain clarified conciseness which in
matters of this peculiar nature is so eminently advantageous----"
The Parson was interrupted at this place by a subdued "B'gee!" from
Dewey, followed by a more emphatic "Wow!" and a scarcely audible "Bless
my soul!"
"What's the matter?" he inquired, stopping short and looking puzzled.
"Nothing," replied Mark. "I didn't say anything."
"Oh!" said the Parson. "Excuse me. Where was I? Oh, yes, I was just
saying I would be brief. Gentlemen--ahem!--when I entered this room I
was in a condition of violent anger. As I stated, an outrage had been
offered me such as neither Parmenides, nor Socrates, nor even Zeno,
stoic of stoics, could have borne. And I have resolved to seek once
more, as a prodigal son, the land of my birth, where science is fostered
instead of being repressed as in this hotbed of prejudice and ignorance.
I----"
"What's up?" cried the four.
"I am coming to that," said the Parson, gravely, stretching out his long
shanks, drawing up his trousers, and displaying his sea-green socks.
"This same morning--and my friend Indian will substantiate my statement,
for he was there--a low, ignorant cadet corporal did enter into my room,
for inspection, by Zeus, and after generally displaying his ill-manners,
he turned to me and conveyed the extraordinary information that,
according to rules, forsooth, I must be deprived of the dearest object
of my affections, solace of my weary hours, my friend in time of need,
my companion in sickness, which through all the trials of adversity has
stuck to me closer than a brother, my only joy, my----"
"What?" cried the four, by this time wrought up to the highest pitch of
indignation and excitement.
"My one refuge from the cares of life," continued the solemn Parson,
"the one mitigating circumstance in this life of tribulation, the
only----"
"What? What? What?"
"What? Of all things what, but this? What but my life, my pride, my
hope--my beloved volume of 'Dana's Geology,' friend of my----"
And the roar of laughter which came then made the sentry out on the
street jump in alarm. The laughing lasted until the cry came:
"New cadets turn out!" which meant drill; and it lasted after that, too,
so that Cadet Spencer, drillmaster, "on duty over plebes," spent the
next hour or two in wondering what on earth his charges kept snickering
at. Poor Texas was the subject of a ten-minute discourse upon
"impertinence and presumption," because he was guilty of the heinous
offense of bursting out laughing in the midst of one of the irate little
drillmaster's tirades.
CHAPTER XVII.
INDIAN IN TROUBLE.
What manner of torture is squad drill has already been shown; and so the
reader should have some idea of what our five friends were going
through. Squad drill lasts for the first two weeks or so of plebe
life--that is, before the move into camp. The luckless victims begin
after breakfast, and at regular (and frequent) periods until night are
turned out under the charge of some irascible yearling to be taught all
manner of military maneuvers--setting up drill, how to stand, to face,
and, in fact, how to walk.
Most people, those who have not been to West Point, are under the
delusion that they know how to walk already. It usually takes the
luckless plebe a week to get that idea hammered out of his head, and
another week besides to learn the correct method. The young instructor,
presenting, by the way, a ludicrous contrast in his shining uniform of
gray and white and gold, with his three or four nervous and variously
costumed pupils, takes the bayonet of his gun for a drill stick and
marches "his" squad over into a secluded corner of the area and thus
begins the above-mentioned instructions:
"At the word forward, throw the weight of the body upon the right leg,
the left knee straight. At the word march, move the left leg smartly
without jerk, carry the left foot forward thirty inches from the right,
the sole near the ground, the toe a little depressed, knee straight and
slightly turned out. At the same time throw the weight of the body
forward (eyes to the front) and plant the foot without shock, weight of
the body resting upon it; next, in like manner, advance the right foot
and plant it as above. Continue to advance without crossing the legs or
striking one against the other, keeping the face direct to the front.
Now, forward, common time, march. Depress the toe so that it strikes the
ground at the same time as the heel (palms of the hands squarely to the
front. Head up)"--and so on.
That is the way the marching exercise goes, exclusive, of course, of all
interruptions, comments and witticisms on the instructor's part. The
plebe begins to get used to it after the first week or so, when the
stiffness rubs off, and then a certain amount of rivalry begins to
spring up among various squads, and everybody settles down to the
business of learning. The squads are consolidated later on, and
gradually the class is merged into one company. Such as they are, these
drills, together with inspections, meals and "rests" (with hazing),
occupy almost the entire time of the two weeks in barracks.
And now for our five "rebels."
That particular Monday morning the plebes had an hour's rest before
dinner, in which to do as they pleased (or as the yearlings pleased).
And during this hour it was that one of "the five," the always luckless
and unhappy one, got into trouble. The one was Indian, or the Mormon.
Indian, it seemed, was always thought of whenever there was any deviling
to be done. The other plebes did as they were told, and furnished
amusement on demand, but they always realized that it was all in fun.
Indian, however, was an innocent, gullible youth, who took everything
solemnly, and was in terror of his unhappy life every moment of the day.
And he was especially unfortunate this time because he fell into the
hands of "Bull" Harris and his gang.
It is not the intention of the writer to give the impression that all
cadets at West Point were or are like "Bull" Harris, or that hazing of
his peculiar variety is an everyday affair. But it would be hard to find
one hundred men without a cowardly, cruel nature among them. "Bull"
Harris and his crowd represented the lower element of the yearling
class, and made hazing their business and diversion. They were the
especial dread of the plebes in consequence. Bull had tried his tricks
upon Mark to his discomfort, and ever since that had left Mark strictly
alone, and confined his efforts to less vigorous victims, among which
were Dewey, and now Indian.
Indian had selected a rather grewsome occupation, anyhow, at the
particular moment when he was caught. It was just in keeping with the
peculiarly dejected frame of mind he was in (after squad drill). He was
wandering through the graveyard, which is situated in a lonely portion
of the post, way off in the northwestern corner. Some heroes, West
Point's bravest, lie buried there, and Indian was dejectedly wondering
if those same heroes would ever have stuck through plebe days in
barracks if they had had a drill master like that "red-headed coyote,"
Chick Spencer. He had about concluded they would not have, when he heard
some muffled laughter and the sound of running feet. A moment later the
terrified plebe found himself completely surrounded by a dozen merry
yearlings, out for a lark. Prominent among them were Bull and his
toadying little friend, Baby Edwards.
It is correct West Point etiquette for a plebe, when "captured" to go
meekly wherever desired. Indian went, and the party disappeared quickly
in the woods on one side, the captive being hidden completely in the
circle of cadets.
There was one person who had seen him, however, and that one person was
the Parson, who had been about to enter the gate to join his friend. And
the Parson, when he saw it, turned quickly on his heel and strode away
back to barracks as fast as his long legs could carry him without loss
of scholarly dignity.
"Yes, by Zeus," he muttered to himself. "Yea, by Zeus, the enemy is
fierce upon our trail. And swiftly, forsooth, will I hie me to my
companions and inform them of this insufferable indignity."
All unconscious of the learned gentleman's discovery, the yearlings
meanwhile were hurrying away into a secluded portion of the woods; for
they knew that their time was short, and that they would have to make
haste. The terrified victim was pushed over logs and through brambles
until he was almost exhausted, the captors meanwhile dropping dire hints
as to his fate.
"An Indian he is!" muttered Bull Harris. "An Indian!" (The plebe was as
red as one then.) "He shall die an Indian's death!"
"That's what he shall!" echoed the crowd. "An Indian! An Indian! We'll
burn him at the stake!"
"He, he! the only good Indian's a dead Indian, he, he!" chimed in Baby,
chuckling at his own witticism. "He, he!"
All this poor Joseph did not fail to notice, and as was his habit, he
believed every word of it. Nor did his mind regain any of its composure
as the procession continued its solemn marching through the lonely
woods, to the tune of the yearlings' cheerful remarks. The latter were
chuckling merrily to themselves, but when they were in hearing of their
victim their tone was deep and awful, and their looks dark and savage.
Poor Indian's fat, round eyes stared wider and rounder every minute; his
equally round, red face grew redder, and his gasping exclamations more
frequent and violent.
"Bless my soul!" he cried, "what extraordinary proceedings!"
"Ha! ha!" muttered the yearlings. "See, he trembles! Behold how the
victim pales!"
A short distance farther in the woods the party came upon a small
clearing.
"Just the spot!" cried Bull. "See the tree in the center. That is the
stake, and to that we will tie him, while the smoke ascends to the
clouds of heaven."
"Just the spot!" echoed Baby, chuckling gleefully.
"It is quiet," continued Bull, in a low, sepulchral tone. "Yes, and his
cries of agony will be heard by none. Advance, wretched victim, and
prepare to die the death which your savage ancestors did inflict upon
our fathers. Advance!"
"Advance!" growled the crowd.
"Bless my soul!" cried the Indian.
He was no more capable of advancing than he was of flying. His knees
were shaking in violent terror. Great beads of perspiration rolled from
the dimples in his fat little cheeks. Limp and helpless, he would have
sunk to the ground, but for the support of his captors.
"Advance!" cried Bull, again, stamping on the ground in mock impatience
and rage. "Bodyguard, bring forth the wretch!"
In response to this order several of the cadets dragged the unhappy
plebe to the tree and held him fast against it. Bull Harris produced
from under his coat a coil of rope, and Indian felt it being wrapped
about his body.
Up to this point he had been silent from sheer terror; but the feeling
of the rough rope served to bring before him with startling reality the
awfulness of the fate that was in store for him. He opened his mouth and
forthwith gave vent to a cry so weird and unearthly that the yearlings
burst out into a shout of laughter. It was no articulate cry, simply a
wild howl. It rang and echoed through the woods, like the hoot of an owl
at night, or the strange, half-human cry of a frightened dog. And it
died into a gasp that Bull Harris described as "the sigh of a homesick
bullfrog."
Indian's musical efforts continued as the horrible rope was wound about
his body. Each wail was louder and more unearthly, more mirth-provoking
to the unpitying cadets, until at last, when Bull Harris finished and
stepped back to survey his work, the frightened plebe could be likened
to nothing less than a steam calliope.
The yearlings were so much amused by his powers that they resolved
forthwith that the show must not stop. And so, without giving the
performer chance to breathe even, they set to work diligently collecting
sticks and leaves.
"Heap 'em up! Heap 'em up!" cried Bull. "Heap 'em up! And soon shall the
fire blaze merrily."
Naturally, since Indian's shrieks and howls continued unabated in
quantity or variety through all this, the yearlings were in no hurry to
finish, but took care to prolong the agony, sport as they called it, as
long as possible. So, while the red-faced, perspiring victim panted,
grunted, howled, and wriggled, they piled the wood about him with
exasperating slowness, rearranging, inspecting, and discussing the
probable effect of each and every stick of wood they laid on.
It was done, at last, however, and the result was a great pile of fagots
surrounding and half covering the unfortunate lad. They were fagots
selected as being the driest that could be found in the dry and
sun-parched clearing. There was a moment or two later on when Bull
wished they had not been quite so dry, after all.
The crowd stood and admired their work for a few moments longer, while
Indian's weird wails rose higher than ever. Then Bull stepped forward.
"Art thou prepared to die?" he inquired in his most sepulchral tone.
Indian responded with a crescendo in C minor.
"He answereth not!" muttered the other. "Let him scorn our questions who
dares. What, ho! Bring forth the torch! We shall roast him brown."
"And when he is brown," roared another, "then he will cease to be
Smith!"
"Yes," cried Bull, "for he will be dead. His bones shall bleach on the
plains. On his flesh we will make a meal!"
"An Indian meal!" added Baby, chuckling merrily over his own joke.
"Several meals," continued Bull, solemnly. "There is enough of him for a
whole table d'hote. How about that? Aren't you?"
"Wow! Wo-oo-oo-oooo!" wailed Indian.
"He mocks us!" cried the spokesman. "He scorns to answer. Very well! We
shall see. Is the torch lit?"
The torch, an ordinary sulphur match, was not lit. But Bull produced one
from the same place as the rope and held it poised. He waited a moment
while the yearlings discussed the next action.
"I say we let him loose," said one. "He's scared enough."
"Nonsense!" laughed Bull, "I'm not going to stop yet. I'm going to set
him afire."
"Set him afire!" echoed the crowd, in a whisper.
"'Sh! Yes," responded the other. "Not really, you know, but just enough
to scare him. We'll set fire to the wood and then when it's begun to
smoke some we'll put it out."
"That's risky," objected somebody. "I say we----"
"Nonsense!" interrupted the leader. "If you don't want to, run home. I
am."
And so once more he turned toward the wretched captive, who still kept
up his shrieks.
"Ha, ha!" he muttered, "thy time has come. Say thy last prayer."
With which words he stepped quickly forward, struck the match upon his
heel, and after holding it for a moment knelt down before the pile of
leaves and wood.
"Wow! Wow!" roared Indian. "Stop! Stop! Help! Wo-oo-oo!"
Another of those steam calliope wails.
"He shrieks for mercy!" muttered Bull. "He shrieks in vain. There!"
The last exclamation came as he touched the match to the leaves, stood
up and worked off to join his companions.
"Form a ring," he said, "and dance about him as he dies."
The terror of Indian can scarcely be imagined; he was almost on the
verge of fainting as the hot choking smoke curled up and around his
face. His yells grew louder and increased to a perfect shriek of agony.
"Don't you think we'd better stop it now?" inquired one of the
yearlings, more timid than the rest.
"Rats!" laughed Bull. "It's hardly started. I'll manage it."
Bull's "management" proved rather untrustworthy; for Bull had forgotten
to take into account the dryness of the twigs, and also another factor.
The air had been still as he struck the match, but just at that moment a
slight breeze swept along the ground, blowing the leaves before it. It
struck the little fire and it seized one tiny flame and bore it up
through the pile and about the legs of the imprisoned plebe.
The next instant the yearlings were thrown into the wildest imaginable
confusion by a cry from one of them.
"Look out! Look out! His trousers are afire!"
CHAPTER XVIII.
TO THE RESCUE.
Things happened in a whirl of confusion after that. To the horrified
cadets a thousand incidents seemed to crowd in at one moment.
In the first place there was the terrified captive, bound helplessly to
the tree, his clothing on fire, himself shrieking at the top of his
lungs. Then there were the yearlings themselves, all crying out with
fright and alarm and rushing wildly in to drag the burning wood away.
Finally there were other arrivals, whom, in the excitement, the
yearlings scarcely noticed. There were two of them; one tore a knife
from his pocket and cut the rope in a dozen places, the other flung off
his jacket and wrapped it quickly about Indian's feet, extinguishing the
flames. And then the two stood up and gazed at the rest--the frightened
yearlings and their infuriated victim.
Infuriated? Yes, wildly infuriated! A change had come over Indian such
as no one who knew him had ever seen before. The fire had not really
hurt him; it had only ruined his clothing and scorched his legs enough
to make him wild with rage. He had tugged at his bonds savagely; when he
was cut free he had torn loose from the friendly stranger who had knelt
to extinguish the fire, and made a savage rush at the badly scared
cadets.
Indian's face was convulsed with passion. His arms were swinging wildly
like a windmill's sails in a hurricane, while from his mouth rushed a
volley of exclamations that would have frightened Captain Kidd and his
pirate band.
It made no difference what he hit; the fat boy was too blind with rage
to see. He must hit something! If a tree had lain in his path he would
have started in on that. As luck would have it, however, the thing that
was nearest to him was a yearling--Baby Edwards.
Baby could have been no more frightened if he had seen an express train
charging on him. He turned instantly and fled--where else would he flee
but to his idol Bull? He hid behind that worthy; Bull put up his hands
to defend himself; and the next instant Indian's flying arms reached the
spot.
One savage blow on the nose sent Bull tumbling backward--over Baby.
Indian, of course, could not stop and so did a somersault over the two.
There was a pretty mêlée after that. Baby was the first to emerge,
covered with dirt and bruises. Indian got up second; he gazed about him,
his rage still burning; he gave one snort, shook his head clear of the
soil as an angry bull might; and then made another savage rush at Baby.
Baby this time had no friend to hide behind; Harris was lying on the
ground, face down, as a man might do to protect himself in a cyclone.
And so Baby had no resource but flight; he took to his heels, the
enraged plebe a few feet behind; and in half a minute more the pair were
lost to sight and sound, far distant in the woods, Indian still
pursuing.
It might be pleasant to follow them, for Indian in his rage was a sight
to divert the gods. But there was plenty more happening at the scene of
the fire, things that ought not be missed.
In the first place, who were the two new arrivals? It was evident that
they were plebes--their faces were familiar to the cadets. But beyond
that no one knew anything about them. They had freed their helpless
classmate and saved him from serious injury, as has been told. They had
done one thing more that has not been mentioned yet. One of them, the
smaller, just after Indian had broken loose, had reached over and dealt
the nearest yearling he could reach a ringing blow upon the cheek.
"Take that!" said he. "Bah Jove, you're a cur."
There was another mêlée after that.
Of course the setting fire to Indian had been a pure accident; but the
two strangers did not know it. They saw in the whole thing a piece of
diabolical cruelty. The yearling the wrath chanced to fall upon was Gus
Murray--and his anger is left to the imagination. He sprang at the
throat of the reckless plebe; and the rest of the crowd rushed to his
aid, pausing just for an instant to size up the pair.
They did not seem "to be any great shucks." The taller was a big
slouchy-looking chap in clothes that evidently bespoke the farmer, and
possessing a drawl which quite as clearly indicated the situation of the
farm--the prairies. Having cut Indian loose he was lounging lazily
against the tree and regarding his more excitable companion with a
good-natured grin.
The companion was even less awe-inspiring, for one had to look at him
but an instant to see that he was one of the creatures whom all
well-regulated boys despise--a dude. He wore a high collar, ridiculously
high; he was slender and delicate looking, with the correct Fifth Avenue
stoop to his shoulders and an attitude to his arms which showed that he
had left his cane behind only on compulsion when he "struck the Point."
And any doubts the yearlings may have had on this question were settled
as the yearlings stared, for the object turned to the other and spoke.
"Aw say, Sleepy," said he, "come help me chastise these fellows, don't
ye know."
As a fact there was but little choice in the matter, it was fight or die
with the two, for at the same instant Gus Murray, wild with rage, had
leaped forward and made a savage lunge at the dude.
What happened then Murray never quite knew. All he made out was that
when he hit at the dude the dude suddenly ceased to be there. The
yearling glanced around in surprise and discovered that his victim had
slid coolly under his elbow and was standing over on the other side of
the clearing--smiling.
The rest of the crowd, not in the least daunted by Murray's miss, rushed
in to the attack; and a moment later a wild scrimmage was in progress,
a scrimmage which defied the eye to comprehend and the pen to describe.
The former never moved from the tree, but with his back flat against it
and his great clumsy arms swinging like sledge hammers he stood and bid
defiance to his share of the crowd.
The dude's tactics were just the opposite. He was light and slender, and
should have been easy prey. That was what Bull Harris thought as he
hastily arose from the spot where Indian had butted him and joined his
eager comrades in the hunt. The hunt; a hunt it was, and no mistake.
While the farmer stayed in one place, the dude seemed everywhere at
once. Dodging, ducking, running, he seemed just to escape every blow
that was aimed at him. He seemed even to turn somersaults, to the amazed
yearlings, who had been looking for a dude and not an acrobat.
The dude did not dodge all the time, though; occasionally he would stop
to cool the ardor of some especially excited cadet with a sudden punch
where it wasn't looked for. Once also he stuck out his foot and allowed
Bull Harris to get his legs caught in it, with a result that Bull's nose
once more plowed the clearing.
The writer wishes it were his privilege to chronicle the fact that the
two put the eight to flight; or that Indian, having put the Baby "to
sleep," returned to perform yet greater prodigies of valor. It would be
a pleasure to tell of all that, but on the other hand truth is a
stubborn thing. Things do not always happen as they should in spite of
the providence that is supposed to make them.
The farmer, after a five-minute gallant stand, was finally knocked
down--from behind--and once down he was being fast pummeled into
nothingness. The dude--his collar, much to his alarm, having wilted--was
in the last stage of exhaustion. In fact, Bull had succeeded in landing
a blow, the first of the afternoon for him. The dude was about to give
up and perish, when assistance arrived. For these gallant heroes were
not fated to conquer alone.
The first warning of the arrival of reinforcements was not the
traditional trumpet call, nor the roll of a drum, nor even the tramp of
soldiers, but a muttered "Wow!" This was followed by Texas himself,
bursting through the bushes like a battering ram. Mark was at his side,
and behind them came the Parson. Dewey, being rather crippled, brought
up the rear.
The four lost no time in questions; they saw two plebes in distress, and
they had met Indian on the warpath and learned the cause of the trouble.
They knew it was their business to help and they "sailed right in" to do
it.
Mark placed himself by the side of the panting "dude." Texas and the
Parson made a V formation and speedily got the farmer to his feet and in
fighting array once more. And after that the odds of the battle were
more even.
It was a very brief battle, in fact. A mere skirmish after that. Mark's
prowess was dreaded, and that of Texas but little less. After Texas had
chased two yearlings into the woods, and Mark had stretched out
Bull--that was Bull's third time that afternoon--the ardor of the eight
began to wane. It was not very long then before the attack stopped by
mutual consent, and the combatants took to staring at each other
instead.
The rage of Bull as he picked himself up and examined his damages must
be imagined.
"You confounded plebes shall pay for this," he roared, "as sure as I'm
alive."
"Now?" inquired Mark, smiling, rubbing his hands, and looking ready to
resume hostilities.
"It's a case of blamed swelled head, that's what it is," growled the
other, sullenly.
"Which," added the Parson's solemn voice, "might be somewhat
more classically expressed by the sesquipedalian Hellenic
vocable--ahem!--Megalacephalomania."
With which interesting bit of information--presented gratis--the Parson
carefully laid his beloved "Dana" on the ground and sat down on it for
safety.
"Why can't you plebes mind your business, anyhow?" snarled Gus Murray.
"That's what I say, too!" cried Bull.
"Curious coincidence!" laughed Dewey. "Reminds me of a story I once
heard, b'gee--I guess it's most too long a story to tell through. Remind
me of it, Mark, and I'll tell it to you some day. One of the most
remarkable tales I ever heard, that! Told me by a fellow that used to
run a sausage factory. It was right next door to a 'Home for Homeless
Cats,' though, b'gee, I couldn't ever see how the cats were homeless if
they had a home there. They didn't stay very long, though. That was the
funniest part of it. They used to sit on the fence near the sausage
factory, b'gee----"
Dewey could have prattled on that way till doomsday with unfailing good
humor. It made the yearlings mad and that was all he cared about. But by
this time Bull had perceived that he was being guyed, and he turned away
with an angry exclamation.
"You fellows may stay if you choose;" he said, "I'm going back to camp.
And those plebes shall pay for this!"
"Cash on demand!" laughed Mark, as the discomfited crowd turned and
slunk off.
CHAPTER XIX.
THE ALLIANCE IS COMPLETED.
Having been thus easily rid of their unpleasant enemies, the plebes set
out in high feather for home.
"I must get back in time to dress for dinner, don't ye know," said the
dude.
"I'm 'bliged to yew fellows," put in the farmer, getting up from his
seat with a lazy groan. "My name's Methusalem Zebediah Chilvers, and
I'll shake hands all raound."
"And mine's Chauncey Van Rensallear Mount-Bonsall, don't ye know," said
the other, putting on his immaculate white gloves. "Bah Jove! I've lost
a cuff button, quarreling with those deuced yearlings!"
Chauncey's cuff button was found at last--he vowed he wouldn't go to
dinner without it--and then the party started in earnest, the two
strangers giving a graphic and characteristic account of the scrimmage
we have just witnessed.
Mark in the meantime was doing some thinking, wondering if here were
not two more eligible members of the "alliance." While he was debating
this question the "dude" approached him privately and began thus:
"I want to say something to you," he said. "Dye know, I can't see why we
plebes suffer so, bah Jove! I was thinking aw, don't ye know, if some of
us would band together we could--aw--chastise the deuced cadets and----"
Master Chauncey Van Rensallear Mount-Bonsall got no further, for Mark
came out then and told the secret. In a few moments the alliance had
added Number Six and Number Seven.
"And now, b'gee, I say let's organize, b'gee!" cried Dewey.
The sound of a drum from barracks put a stop to further business then,
but before supper there was a spare half hour, and during that time the
seven conspirators met in Mark's room to "organize." Indian was there,
too, now calm and meek again.
"In the first place," said Mark, "we want to elect a leader."
"Wow!" cried Texas, "what fo'? Ain't you leader?"
"I say, Mark, b'gee!" cried Dewey.
"Mark," said the Parson, solemnly.
"Mark," murmured Indian from the corner, and "Mark" chimed in the two
newcomers.
"It seems to be unanimous," said Mark, "so I guess I'll have to let it
go. But I'm sure I can't see why you think of me. What shall we call
ourselves?"
That brought a lengthy discussion, which space does not permit of being
given. The Loyal Legion, the Sons of the Revolution, the Independents,
the Cincinnati--suggested by the classic Parson--and also the Trojan
Heroes--from the same source--all these were suggested and rejected.
Then somebody moved the Seven Rebels, which was outvoted as not
expressive enough, but which led to another one that took the whole
crowd with a rush. It came from an unexpected source--the unobtrusive
Indian in the corner.
"Let's name it 'The Seven Devils'!" said he.
And the Seven Devils they were from that day until the time when the
class graduated from the Point.
"Three cheers for the Seven Devils!" cried Dewey, "b'gee!"
"Now," said the Parson, rising with a solemn look, "let us swear eternal
fealty by all that man holds holy. Let us swear by the Stygian Shades
and the realms of Charon, whence all true devils come. Yea, by Zeus!"
"And we'll stand by one another to the death, b'gee," cried Dewey.
"Remember, we're organized for no purpose on earth but to do those
yearlings, and we'll lick 'em, b'gee, if they dare to look at us."
"Show 'em no mercy, don't ye know," said "Chauncey."
"And let's have a motto," cried Indian, becoming infected with the
excitement. "'Down with the yearlings.'"
"I suggest 'We die but we never surrender,' b'gee."
"'Veni, vidi, vici,'" remarked the Parson, "or else 'Dulce et decorum
est pro patria mori,' in the immortal words of Horace, poet of the
Sabine farm."
"A motto should be brief," laughed Mark. "I can beat you all. I'll give
you a motto in three letters of the alphabet."
"Three letters!" echoed the crowd. "Three letters! What is it?"
"It expresses all our objects in forming," said Mark, "and we'll have
lots of fun if we obey it. My motto is 'B. B. J.'"
"Bully, b'gee!" cried Dewey, and the rest echoed his approval with a
