went back to the study together. 
The Baron resumed his seat in the armchair; he 
always sat down when he had time, and he had not 
yet finished his big cigar. The detective went to the 
window and looked out through the panes, as if to 
give Malipieri time to make up his mind what to do ; 
and Malipieri paced the floor with bent head, his hands 
in his pockets, in utter desperation. At any moment 
Sabina might appear, yet he dared not even go to her 
door, lest the two men should follow him. 
But at least he could prevent her from coming in, 
for he could lock the entrance to the small room. As 
he reached the end of his walk he turned the key and 
put it into his pocket. The detective turned round 
sharply and Volterra moved his head at the sound. 
" Why do you do that ? " he asked, in a tone of 
annoyance. 
" Because no one shall go in, while I have the key," 
Malipieri answered. 
 
" I must go in, sooner or later," said the detective. 
"I can wait all day, and all night, if you please, 
for I shall not use force where a lady is concerned. 
But I must see that room." 
Like all such men, he was obstinate, when he 
believed that he was doing his duty. Malipieri 
looked from him to Volterra, and back again, and 
suddenly made up his mind. He preferred the detec- 
tive, of the two, if he must trust any one, the more 
so as the latter probably did not know Sabina by 
sight. 
"If you will be so kind as to stay there, in that 
armchair," he said to Volterra, "I will see what 
I can do to hasten matters. Will you ? " 
"Certainly. I am very comfortable here." The 
Baron laughed a little. 
"Then," said Malipieri, turning to the detective, 
"kindly come with me, and I will explain as far 
as I can." 
He took the key from his pocket again, and opened 
the door of the small room, let in the detective and 
shut it after him without locking it. He had hardly 
made up his mind what to say, but he knew what 
he wished. 
"This is a very delicate affair," he began in a 
whisper. " I will see whether the lady is awake." 
He went to the door of the bedroom on tiptoe 
and listened. Not a sound reached him. The room 
was quite out of hearing of the rest of the apart- 
ment, and Sabina, accustomed as she was to sleep 
eight hours without waking, was still resting peace- 
fully. Malipieri came back noiselessly. 
" She is asleep," he whispered. " "Will you not 
take my word for it that there is nothing to be found 
in the room which can have the least connection with 
Sassi's accident?" 
The detective shook his head gravely, and raised 
his eyebrows, while he shut his eyes, as some men do 
when they mean that nothing can convince them. 
"I advise you to go in and wake your wife," he 
whispered, still very politely. " She can wrap her- 
self up and sit in a chair while I look in." 
" That is impossible. I cannot go in and wake 
her." 
The detective looked surprised, and was silent for 
a moment. 
" This is a very strange situation," he muttered. " A 
man who dares not go into his wife's room when she 
is asleep — I do not understand." 
"I cannot explain," answered Malipieri, "but it is 
altogether impossible. I ask you to believe me, on my 
oath, that you will find nothing in the room." 
"I have already told you, sir, that I must fulfil 
the formalities, whatever I may wish to believe. And 
it is my firm belief that Sign or Sassi came by the 
injuries of which he may possibly die, somewhere in 
this apartment, yesterday afternoon. My reputation 
is at stake, and I am a government servant. To 
oblige you, I will wait an hour, but if the lady is not 
awake then, I shall go and knock at that door and 
¥  
call until she answers. It would be simpler if you 
would do it yourself. That is all, and you must take 
your choice." 
Malipieri saw that he must wake Sabina, and explain 
to her through the door that she must dress. He 
reflected a moment, and was about to ask the detec- 
tive to go back to the study, when a sound of voices 
came from that direction, and one was a woman's. 
" It seems that there is another lady in the house," 
said the detective. " Perhaps she can help us. Surely 
you will allow a lady to enter your wife's room and 
wake her." 
But Malipieri was speechless at that moment and 
was leaning stupidly against the jamb of the study 
door. He had recognized the voice of the Baroness 
talking excitedly with her husband. Fate had caught 
him now, and there was no escape. Instinctively, he 
was sure that the Baroness had come in search of 
Sabina, and would not leave the house till she had 
found her, do what he might. 
CHAPTER XVIII 
Tecb Baroness had been csilled. to the telephone five 
minutes after Volterra had gone out with the porter, 
leaving word that he was going to the Palazzo Conti 
and would be back within two hours. The message 
she received was from the Russian Embassy, and in- 
formed her that the dowager Princess Conti had 
arrived at midnight, was the guest of the Ambassa- 
dor, and wished her daughter Sabina to come and see 
her between eleven and twelve o'clock. In trembling 
tones the Baroness had succeeded in saying that Sabina 
should obey, and had rung off the connection at once. 
Then, for the first time in her life, she had felt for a 
moment as if she were going to faint. 
The facts, which were unknown to her, were simple 
enough. The Ambassador had been informed that a 
treasure had been discovered, and had telegraphed the 
fact in cipher to the Minister of Foreign Affairs in 
St. Petersburg, who had telegraphed the news to 
Prince Rubomirska, who had telegraphed to the Am- 
bassador, who was his intimate friend, requesting him 
to receive the Princess for a few days. As the Prince 
and his sister were already in the country, in Poland, 
not far from the Austrian frontier, it had not taken 
her long to reach Rome. Of all this, the poor Baroness 
 
was in ignorance. The one fact stared her in the face, 
that the Princess had come to claim Sabina, and Sabina 
had disappeared. 
She had learned that the porter had come to say 
that the cellars of the Palazzo Conti were flooded, and 
she knew that her husband would be there some time. 
She found Sassi's card, on which his address was 
printed, and she drove there in a cab, climbed the 
stairs and rang the bell. The old woman who opened 
was in terrible trouble, and was just going out. She 
showed, the Baroness the news of Sassi's mysterious 
accident shortly given in a paragraph of the Messag- 
•gero, the little morning paper which is universally 
read greedily by the lower classes. She was just going 
to the accident hospital, the " Consolazione," to see her 
poor master. He had gone out at half past four on 
the previous afternoon, and she had sat up all night, 
hoping that he would come in. She was quite sure 
that he had not returned at all after he had gone out. 
She was quite sure, too, that he had been knocked 
down and robbed, for he had a gold watch and chain, 
and always carried money in his pocket. 
The Baroness looked at her, and saw that she was 
speaking the truth and was in real distress. It would 
be quite useless to search the rooms for Sabina. The 
old woman-servant had no idea who the Baroness was, 
and in her sudden trouble would certainly have con- 
fided to her that there was a young lady in the house, 
who had not been able to get home. 
" For the love of heaven, Signora," she cried, " come 
with me to the hospital, if you know him, for he may 
be dying." 
The Baroness promised to go later, and really in- 
tended to do so. She drove to the convent in which 
Donna Clementina was now a cloistered nun, and asked 
the portress whether Donna Sabina Conti had been to 
see her sister on the previous day. The portress an- 
swered that she had not, and was quite positive of the 
fact. The Baroness looked at her watch and hastened 
to the Palazzo Conti. When she got there, the porter 
had already returned to his lodge, and he led her up- 
stairs and to the door of the study. 
Finding her husband alone, she explained what was 
the matter, in a few words and in a low voice. The 
Princess had come back, and wished to see Sabina that 
very morning, and Sabina could not be found. She 
sank into a chair, and her sallow face expressed the 
utmost fright and perplexity. 
" Sassi left our house at five o'clock with Sabina," 
said the Baron, " and at a quarter to six he was taken 
from the door of this palace to the hospital by Mali- 
pieri's man. Either Malipieri or his man must have 
seen her." 
" She is here ! " cried the Baroness in a loud tone, 
something of the truth flashing upon her. "I know 
she is here ! " 
Volterra's mind worked rapidly at the possibility, 
as at a problem. If his wife were not mistaken it was 
easy to explain Malipieri's flat refusal to let any one 
enter the bedroom. 
 
" You may be right," lie said, rising. " If slie is in 
the palace she is in the room beyond that one." He 
pointed to the door. "You must go in," he said. 
"Never mind Malipieri. I will manage him." 
At that moment the door opened. Malipieri had 
recovered his senses enough to attempt a final resist- 
ance, and stood there, very pale, ready for anything. 
But the fat Baron knew what he was about, and as 
he came forward with his wife he suddenly thrust out 
his hand at Malipieri's head, and the latter saw down 
the barrel of Volterra's revolver. 
" You must let my wife pass," cried Volterra coolly, 
"or I will shoot you." 
Malipieri was as active as a sailor. In an instant 
he had hurled himself, bending low, at the Baron's 
knees, and the fat man fell over him, while the re- 
volver flew from his hand, half across the room, for- 
tunately not going off as it fell on its side. While 
Malipieri was struggling to get the upper hand, the 
detective ran forward and helped Volterra. The two 
threw themselves upon the younger man, and between 
the detective's wiry strength and the Baron's tremen- 
dous weight, he lay panting and powerless on his back 
for an instant. 
The Baroness had possibly assisted at some scenes 
of violence in the course of her husband's checkered 
career. At all events, she did not stop to see what 
happened after the way was clear, but ran to the door 
of the bedroom, and threw it wide open, for it was not 
locked. The light that entered showed her where the 
window was ; she opened it in an instant, and looked 
round. 
Sabina was sitting up in bed, staring at her with a 
dazed expression, her hair in wild confusion round 
her pale face and falling over her bare neck. Her 
clothes lay in a heap on the floor, beside the bed. 
Never was any woman more fairly caught in a situa- 
tion impossible to explain. Even in that first moment, 
she felt it, when she looked at the Baroness's face. 
The latter did not speak, for she was utterly inca- 
pable of finding words. The sound of a scuffle could 
be heard from the study in the distance ; she quietly 
shut the door and turned the key. Then she came and 
stood by the bed, facing the window. Sabina had sunk 
back upon the pillows, but her eyes looked up bravely 
and steadily. Of the two she was certainly the one 
less disturbed, even then, for she remembered that 
Malipieri had meant to go and tell the Baroness the 
whole truth, early in the morning. He had done so, 
of course, and the Baroness had come to take her back, 
very angry of course, but that was all. This was what 
Sabina told herself, but she guessed that matters would 
turn out much worse. 
" Did he tell you how it happened that I could not 
get home ? " she asked, almost calmly. 
"No one has told me anything. Your mother 
arrived in Rome last night. She is at the Russian 
Embassy and wishes to see you at eleven o'clock." 
" My mother ? " Sabina raised herself on one hand 
in surprise. 
 
" Yes. And I find you liere." 
The Baroness folded her arms like a man, her brows 
contracted, and her face was almost livid. 
" Have you the face to meet your mother, after 
this ? " she asked sternly. 
"Yes — of course," answered Sabina. "But I must 
go home and dress. My frock is ruined." 
"You are a brazen creature," said the Baroness in 
disgust and anger. " You do not seem to know what 
shame means." 
Sabina's deep young eyes flashed ; it was not safe 
to say such things to her. 
"I have done nothing to be ashamed of," she an- 
swered proudly, " and you shall not speak to me like 
that. Do you understand?" 
" Nothing to be ashamed of ! " The Baroness stared 
at her in genuine amazement. " Nothing to be ashamed 
of ! " she repeated, and her voice shook with emotion. 
"You leave my house by stealth, you let no one 
know where you are going, and the next morning I- 
find you here, in your lover's house, in your lover's 
room, the door not even locked, your head upon your 
lover's pillow ! Nothing to be ashamed of ! Merciful 
heavens ! And you have not only ruined yourself, but 
you have done an irreparable injury to honest people 
who took you in when you were starving ! '.' 
The poof woman paused for breath, and in her 
horror, she hid her face in her hands. She had her 
faults, no doubt, and she knew that the world was 
bad, but she had never dreamt of such barefaced and 
utterly monstrous cynicism as Sabina's. If tlie girl 
had been overcome with shame and repentance, and 
had broken down entirely, imploring help and for- 
giveness, as would have seemed natural, the Baroness, 
for her own social sake, might have been at last 
moved to help her out of her trouble. Instead, being 
a person of rigid virtue and judging the situation in 
the only way really possible for her to see it, she 
was both disgusted and horrified. It was no wonder. 
But she was not prepared for Sabina's answer. 
" If I were strong enough, I would kill you," said 
the young girl, quietly laying her head on the pillow 
again. 
The Baroness laughed hysterically. She felt as 
if she were in the presence of the devil himself. 
She was not at all a hysterical woman nor often 
given to dramatic exhibitions of feeling, but she 
had never dreamt that a human being could behave 
with such horribly brazen shamelessness. 
For some moments there was silence. Then Sabina 
spoke, in a quietly scornful tone, while the Baroness 
turned her back on her and stood quite still, looking 
out of the window. 
"I suppose you have a right to be surprised," 
Sabina said, " but you have no right to insult me 
and say thvQgs that are not true. Perhaps Signor 
Malipieri likes me very much. I do not know. He 
has never told me he loved me." 
The Baroness's large figure shook with fury, but 
she did not turn round. What more was the girl 
 
going to say? That she did not even care a little 
for the man with whom she had ruined herself? Yes. 
That was what she was going on to explain. It was 
beyond belief. 
" I have only seen him a few times," Sabina said. 
"I daresay I shall be very fond of him if I see him 
often. I think he is very like my ideal of what a 
man should be." 
The Baroness turned her face half round with an 
expression that was positively savage. But she said 
nothing, and again looked through the panes. She 
remembered afterwards that the room smelt slightly 
of stale cigar smoke, soap and leather. 
" He wished me to see the things he has found 
before any one else should," Sabina continued. " So 
he got SasSi to bring me here. While we were in 
the vaults, the water came, and we could not get 
out. He worked for hours to break a hole, and it 
was two o'clock in the morning when we were free. 
I had not had any dinner, and of course I could not 
go with him to your house at that hour, even if I 
had not been worn out. So he brought me here 
and gave me something to eat, and his room to 
sleep in. As for the door not being locked, he told 
me twice to lock it, and I was so sleepy that I for- 
got to. That is what happened." 
After an ominous silence, the Baroness turned round. 
Her face was almost yellow now. 
"I do not believe a word you have told me," she 
said, half choking. 
" Then go ! " cried Sabina, sitting up with flashing 
eyes. " I do not care a straw whether you believe 
the truth or not ! Go ! Go ! " 
She stretched out one straight white arm and 
pointed to the door, in wrath. The Baroness looked 
at her, and stood still a moment. Then she shrugged 
her shoulders in a manner anything but aristocratic, 
and left the room without deigning to turn her head. 
The instant she was gone Sabina sprang out of bed 
and locked the door after her. 
Meanwhile, the struggle between Malipieri and his 
two adversaries had come to an end very soon. Mali- 
pieri had not really expected to prevent the Baroness 
from going to Sabina, but he had wished to try and ex- 
plain matters to her before she went. He had upset 
Volterra, because the latter had pointed a revolver at 
his head, which will seem a sufficient reason to most 
hot-tempered men. The detective had suggested put- 
ting handcuffs on him, while they held him down, but 
Volterra was anxious to settle matters amicably. 
" It was my fault," he said, drawing back. " I thought 
that you were going to resist, and I pulled out my pis- 
tol too soon. I offer you all my apologies." 
He had got to his feet with more alacrity than might 
have been expected of such a fat man, and was adjust- 
ing his collar and tie, and smoothing his waistcoat over 
his rotundity. Malipieri had risen the moment he was 
free. The detective looked as if nothing had happened 
out of the common way, and the neatness of his appear- 
ance was not in the least disturbed. 
 
" I offer you my apologies, Signer Malipieri," repeated 
the Baron cordially and smiling in a friendly way. " I 
should not have drawn my pistol on you. I presume 
you will accept the excuses I make ? " 
" Do not mention the matter," answered Malipieri with 
coolness, but civilly enough, seeing that there was 
nothing else to be done. " I trust you are none the 
worse for your fall." 
" Not at all, not at all," replied Volterra. " I hope," he 
said, turning to the detective, " that you will say nothing 
about this incident, since no harm has been done. It 
concerns a private matter, — I may almost say, a family 
matter. I have some little influence, and if I can be of 
any use to you, I shall always be most happy." 
The gratitude of so important a personage was not to 
be despised, as the detective knew. He produced a card 
bearing his name, and handed it to the Senator with a 
bow. 
" Always at your service, sir," he said. " It is very 
fortunate that the revolver did not go off and hurt one 
of us," he added, picking up the weapon and handing it 
to Volterra. " I have noticed that these things almost 
invariably kill the wrong person, when they kill any- 
body at all, which is rare." 
Volterra smiled, thanked him and returned the re- 
volver to his pocket. Malipieri had watched the two in 
silence. Fate had taken matters out of his hands, and 
there was absolutely nothing to be done. In due time, 
Sabina would come out with the Baroness, but he could 
not guess what would happen then. Volterra would 
probably not speak out before the detective, wbo would 
not recognize Sabina, even if lie knew lier by sight. 
The Baroness would take care that he should not see 
the girl's face, as both Volterra and Malipieri knew. 
The three men sat down and waited in silence after 
the detective had last spoken. Volterra lit a fresh 
cigar, and offered one to the detective a few moments 
later. The latter took it with a bow and put it into 
his pocket for a future occasion. 
The door opened at last, and the Baroness entered, 
her face discoloured to a blotchy yellowness by her 
suppressed anger. She stood still a moment after she 
had come in, and glared at Malipieri. He and the 
detective rose, but Volterra kept his seat. 
" Were you right, my dear ? " the latter enquired, 
looking at her. 
" Yes," she answered in a thick voice, turning to him 
for an instant, and then glaring at Malipieri again, as 
if she could hardly keep her hands from him in her 
righteous anger. 
He saw clearly enough that she had not believed the 
strange story which Sabina must have told her, and 
he wondered whether any earthly power could possibly 
make her believe it in spite of herself. During the 
moments of silence that followed, the whole situation 
rose before him, in the only light under which it could 
at first appear to any ordinary person. It was frightful to 
think that what had been a bit of romantic quixotism 
on his part, in wishing? Sabina to see the statues which 
should have been hers, should end in her social dis- 
 
grace, perhaps in her utter ruin if the Baroness and her 
husband could not be mollified. He did not know 
that there was one point in Sabina's favour, in the 
shape of the Princess's sudden return to Rome, though 
he guessed the Baroness's character well enough to 
have foreseen, had he known of the new complica- 
tion, that she would swallow her pride and even over- 
look Sabina's supposed misdeeds, rather than allow the 
Princess to accuse her of betraying her trust and let- 
ting the young girl ruin herself. 
" I must consult with you," the Baroness said to her 
husband, controlling herself as she came forward into 
the room and passed Malipieri. " We cannot talk 
here," she added, glancing at the detective. 
" This gentleman," said Volterra, waving his hand 
towards the latter, " is here officially, to make an en- 
quiry about Sassi's accident." 
" I shall be happy to wait outside if you have private 
matters to discuss," said the detective, who wished to 
show himself worthy of the Baron's favour, if he could 
do so without neglecting his duties. 
" You are extremely obliging," Volterra said, in a 
friendly tone. 
The detective smiled, bowed and left the room by 
the door leading towards the hall. 
" It seems to me," the Baroness said, still suppressing 
her anger, as she turned her face a little towards Mali- 
pieri and spoke at him over her shoulder, " it seems to 
me that you might go too." 
It was not for Malipieri to resent her tone or words 
just then, and he knew it, though he hated her for be- 
lieving the evidence of her senses rather than Sabina's 
story. He made a step tovs^ards the door. 
" No," Volterra said, without rising, " I think he had 
better stay, and hear what we have to say about this. 
After all, the responsibility for what has happened falls 
upon him." 
" I should think it did ! " cried the Baroness, break- 
ing out at last, in harsh tones. " You abominable villain, 
you monster of iniquity, you snake, you viper — " 
" Hush, hush, my dear ! " interposed the Baron, real- 
izing vaguely that his v/ife's justifiable excitement was 
showing itself in unjustifiably vulgar vituperation. 
" You toad ! " yelled the Baroness, shaking her fist 
in Malipieri's face. " You reptile, you accursed ruffian, 
you false, black-hearted, lying son of Satan ! " 
She gasped for breath, and her whole frame quivered 
with fury, while her livid lips twisted themselves to 
hiss out the epithets of abuse. Volterra feared lest she 
should fall down in an apoplexy, and he rose from his 
seat quickly. He gathered her to his corpulent side 
with one arm and made her turn away towards the win- 
dow, which he opened with his free hand. 
" I should be all that, and worse, if a tenth of what 
you believe were true," Malipieri said, coming nearer 
and then standing still. 
He was very pale, and he was conscious of a cowardly 
wish that Volterra's revolver might have killed him ten 
minutes earlier. But he was ashamed of the mere 
thought when he remembered what Sabina would have 
 
to face. Volterra, while holding his wife firmly against 
the window sill, to force her to breathe the outer air, 
turned his head towards Malipieri. 
" She is quite beside herself, you see," he said 
apologetically. 
The Baroness was a strong woman, and after the first 
explosion of her fury she regained enough self-control 
to speak connectedly. She turned round, in spite of 
the pressure of her husband's arm. 
" He is not even ashamed of what he has done ! " she 
said. " He stands there — " 
The Baron interrupted her, fearing another outburst. 
"Let me speak," he said in the tone she could not 
help obeying. "What explanation have you to offer 
of Donna Sabina's presence here ? " he asked. 
As he put the question, he nodded significantly to 
Malipieri, over his wife's shoulder, evidently to make 
the latter understand that he must at least invent some 
excuse if he had none ready. The Baron did not care 
a straw what became of him, or of Sabina, and wished 
them both out of his way for ever, but he had always 
avoided scandal, and was especially anxious to avoid it 
now. 
Malipieri resented the hint much more than the 
Baroness's anger, but he was far too much in the 
wrong, innocent though he was, to show his resentment. 
He told his story firmly and coolly, and it agreed 
exactly with Sabina's. 
" That is exactly what happened last night," he con- 
cluded. " If you will go down, you will find the breach 
I made, and the first vaults full of water. I have 
nothing more to say." 
" You taught her the lesson admirably," said the 
Baroness with withering scorn. " She told me the same 
story almost word for word ! " 
" Madam," Malipieri answered, " I give you my word 
of honour that it is true." 
" My dear," Volterra said, speaking to his wife, " when 
a gentleman gives his word of honour, you are bound to 
accept it." 
" I hope so," said Malipieri. 
"Any man would perjure himself for a woman," re- 
torted the Baroness with contempt. 
" No, my dear," the Baron objected, trying to mollify 
her. " Perjury is a crime, you know." 
" And what he has done is a much worse crime ! " she 
cried. 
" Ihave not committed any crime," Malipieri answered. 
" I would give all I possess, and my life, to undo what 
has happened, but I have neither said nor done anything 
to be ashamed of. For Donna Sabina's sake, you must 
accept my explanation. In time you will believe it." 
" Yes, yes," urged Volterra, " I am sure you will, my 
dear. In any case you must accept it as the only one. 
I will go downstairs with Signor Malipieri and we will 
take the porter to the cellars. Then you can go out 
with Sabina, and if you are careful no one will ever 
know that she has been here." 
" And do you mean to let her live under your roof 
after this ? " asked the Baroness indignantly. 
 
" Her mother is now in Rome," answered Volterra 
readily. " When she is dressed, you will take her to the 
Princess, and you will say that as we are going away, 
we are reluctantly obliged to decline the responsibilitj' 
of keeping the young girl with us any longer. That is 
what you will do." 
" I am glad you admit at least that she cannot live 
with us any longer," the Baroness answered. " I am 
sure I have no wish to ruin the poor girl, who has been 
this man's unhappy victim — " 
" Hush, hush ! " interposed Volterra. " You must 
really accept the explanation he has given." 
" For decency's sake, you may, and I shall have to pre- 
tend that I do. At least," she continued, turning 
coldly to Malipieri, " you will make such reparation as 
is in your power." 
"I will do anything I can," answered Malipieri gravely. 
" You will marry her as soon as possible," the Baron- 
ess said with frigid severity. " It is the only thing you 
can do." 
Malipieri was silent. The Baron looked at him, and 
a disagreeable smile passed over his. fat features. But 
at that moment the door opened, and Sabina entered. 
Without the least hesitation she came forward to 
Malipieri, frankly holding out her hand. 
" Good morning," she said. " Before I go, I wish to 
thank you again for saving my life, and for taking care 
of me here." 
He held her hand a moment. 
" I ask your pardon, with all my heart, for having 
brought you into danger and trouble," lie an- 
swered. 
" It was not your fault," she said. " It was nobody's 
fault, and I am glad I saw the statues before any one 
else. You told me last night that you were probably 
going away. If we never meet again, I wish you to 
remember that you are not to reproach yourself for 
anything that may happen to me. You might, you 
know. Will you remember ? " 
She spoke quite naturally and without the least fear 
of Volterra and his wife, who looked on and listened 
in dumb surprise at her self-possession. She meant 
every word she said, and more too, but she had thought 
out the little speech while she was dressing, for she 
had guessed what must be happening in the study. 
Malipieri fixed his eyes on hers gratefully, but did 
not find an answer at once. 
" Will you remember ? " she repeated. 
"I shall never forget," he answered, not quite 
steadily. 
By one of those miracles which are the birthright 
of certain women, she had made her dress look almost 
fresh again. The fawn-coloured hat was restored to 
its shape, or nearly. The mud that had soiled her 
skirt had dried and she had brushed it away, though 
it had left faint spots on the cloth, here and there ; 
pins hid the little rents so cleverly that only a woman's 
eye could have detected anything wrong, and the 
russet shoes were tolerably presentable. The Baroness 
saw traces of the adventure to which the costume had 
 
been exposed, but Volterra smiled and was less in- 
clined than ever to believe the story which both had 
told, though he did not say so. 
" My wife and I," he said cordially, " quite under- 
stand what has happened, and no one shall ever know 
about it, unless you speak of it yourself. She will go 
home with you now, and will then take you to the Rus- 
sian Embassy to see your mother." 
Sabina looked at him in surprise, for she had ex- 
pected a disagreeable scene. Then she glanced at the 
Baroness's sallow and angry face, and she partly under- 
stood the position. 
" Thank you," she said proudly, " but if you do 
not mind, I will go to my mother directly. You will 
perhaps be so kind as to have my things sent to the 
Embassy, or my mother's maid will come and get 
them." 
" You cannot go looking like that," said the Baroness 
severely. 
"On the contrary," Volterra interposed, "I think 
that considering your dangerous adventure, you look 
perfectly presentable. Of course, we quite understand 
that as the Princess has returned, you should wish to 
go back to her at once, though we are very sorry to 
let you go." 
Sabina paused a moment before answering. Then 
she spoke to the Baroness, only glancing at Volterra. 
" Until to-day, you have been very kind to me," she 
said with an effort. " I thank you for your kindness, 
and I am sorry that you think so badly of me." 
" My dear young lady," cried the Baron, lying 
with hearty cordiality, "you are much mistaken! I 
assure you, it was only a momentary misapprehension 
on the part of my wife, who had not even spoken with 
Signor Malipieri. His explanation has been more than 
satisfactory. Is it not so, my dear?" he asked, turn- 
ing to the Baroness for coniirmation of his fluent as- 
surances. 
" Of course," she answered, half choking, and with a 
face like thunder ; but she dared not disobey. 
" If my mother says anything about my frock, I shall 
tell her the whole story," said Sabina, glancing at her 
skirt. 
" If you do," said the Baroness, " I shall deny it from 
beginning to end." 
" I think that it would perhaps be wiser to explain 
that in some other way," the Baron suggested. " Signor 
Malipieri, will you be so very kind as to go down first, 
and take the porter with a light to the entrance of the 
cellars? He knows Donna Sabina, you see. I will 
come down presently, for I shall stay behind and ask 
the detective to look out of the window in the next 
room, while my wife and Donna Sabina pass through. 
In that way we shall be quite sure that she will not 
be recognized. Will you do that, Signor Malipieri? 
Unless you have a better plan to suggest, of course." 
Malipieri saw that the plan was simple and apparently 
safe. He looked once more at Sabina, and she smiled, 
and just bent her head, but said nothing. He left the 
room. The detective was sitting in a corner of the 
 
room beyond, and the two men exchanged a silent nod 
as Malipieri passed. 
Everything was arranged as the Baron had planned, 
and ten minutes later the Baroness and Sabina de- 
scended the stairs together in silence and reached the 
great entrance. The two soldiers were standing by the 
open door of the lodge, and saluted in military fashion. 
Gigi, the , carpenter, sprang forward and opened the 
postern door, touching his paper cap to the ladies. 
They did not exchange a word as they walked to the 
Piazza Sant' Apollinare to find a cab. Sabina held her 
head high and looked straight before her, and the 
Baroness's invisible silk bellows were distinctly audible 
in the quiet street. 
" By the hour," said the Baroness, as they got into 
the first cab they reached on the stand. " Go to the 
Russian Embassy, in the Corso." 
CHAPTER XIX 
" So you spent last niglit in tlie rooms of a man you 
have not seen half a dozen times," said the Princess, 
speaking with a cigarette in her mouth. " And what 
is worse, those dreadful Volterra people found you 
there. No Conti ever had any common sense ! " 
What Sabina had foreseen had happened. Her 
mother had looked her over, from head to foot, to see 
what sort of condition she was in, as a horse-dealer 
looks oyer a promising colt he has not seen for some 
time ; and the Princess had instantly detected the signs 
of an accident. In answer to her question Sabina told 
the truth. Her mother had watched her face and her 
innocent eyes while she was telling the story, and 
needed no other confirmation. 
" You are a good girl," she continued, as Sabina did 
not reply to the last speech. "But you are a little 
fool. I wonder why my children are all idiots ! I 
am not so stupid after all. I suppose it must have 
been your poor father." 
The white lids closed thoughtfully over her magnifi- 
cent eyes, and opened again after a moment, as if she 
had called up a vision of her departed husband and 
had sent it away again. 
" I suppose it was silly of me to go at all," Sabina 
 
admitted, leaning back in her cliair. " But I wanted 
so much to see the statues ! " 
She felt at home. Her mother had brcught her up 
badly and foolishly, and of late had neglected her 
shamefully. Sabina knew that and neither loved her 
nor respected her, and it was not because she was 
her mother that the girl felt suddenly at ease in her 
presence, as she never could feel with the Baroness. She 
did not wish to be at all like her mother in character, 
or even in manner, and yet she felt that they belonged 
to the same kind, spoke the same language, and had an 
instinctive understanding of each other, though these 
things implied neither mutual respect nor affection. 
"That horrible old Volterra! " said the Princess, 
with emphasis. " He means to keep everything he has 
found, for himself, if he can. I have come only just in 
time." 
Sabina did not answer. She knew nothing of the 
law, and though she fancied that she might have some 
morally just claim to a share in the treasure, she had 
never believed that it could be proved. 
" Of course," the Princess continued, smoking 
thoughtfully, "there is only one thing to be done. 
You must marry this Malipieri at once, whether you 
like him or not. What sort of man is he ? " 
The faint colour rose in Sabina's cheeks and not al- 
together at the mere thought of marrying Malipieri; 
she was hurt by the way her mother spoke of him. 
" What kind of man is he ? " the Princess repeated. 
"I suppose he is a Venetian, a son of the man who 
married the Gradenigo heiress, about the time when I 
was married myself. Is he the man who discovered 
Troy ? " 
" Carthagj, I think," said Sabina. 
"Troy, Carthage, America, it is all the same. He 
discovered something, and I fancy he will be rich. 
But what is he like ? Dark, fair, good, bad, snuffy or 
smart ? As he is an archaeologist, he must be snuffy, 
a bore, probably, and what the English call a male 
frump. It cannot be helped, my dear ! You will 
have to marry him. Describe him to me." 
" He is dark," said Sabina. 
" I am glad of that. I always liked dark men — 
your father was fair, like you. Besides, as you are 
a blonde, you will always look better beside a dark 
husband. But of course he is dreadfully careless, with 
long hair and doubtful nails. All those people are." 
" No," said Sabina. " He is very nice-looking and 
neat, and wears good clothes." 
The Princess's brow cleared. 
"All the better," she said. "Well, my dear, it is 
not so bad after all. We have found a husband for 
you, rich, of good family — quite as good as yours, 
my child ! Good-looking, smart — what more do you 
expect? Besides, he cannot possibly refuse to marry 
you after what has happened. On the whole, I think 
your adventure has turned out rather well. You can 
be married in a month. Every one will think it quite 
natural that it should have been kept quiet until I 
came, you see." 
 
" But even if I wanted to marry him, he will never 
ask for me," objected Sabina, who was less surprised 
than might be expected, for she knew her mother 
thoroughly. 
The Princess laughed, and blew a cloud of smoke 
from her lips, and then showed her handsome teeth. 
"I have only to say the word," she answered. 
" When a young girl of our world has spent the night 
in a man's rooms, he marries her, if her family wishes 
it. No man of honour can possibly refuse. I suppose 
that this Malipieri is a gentleman ? " 
" Indeed he is ! " Sabina spoke with considerable 
indignation. 
"Precisely. Then he will come to me this after- 
noon and tell his story frankly, just as you have done 
— it was very sensible of you, my dear — and he will 
offer to marry you. Of course I shall accept." 
" But, mother," cried Sabina, aghast at the sudden- 
ness of the conclusion, " I am not at all sure — " 
She stopped, feeling that she was much more sure 
of being in love with Malipieri than she had been 
when she had driven to the palace with Sassi on the 
previous afternoon. 
" Is there any one you like better ? " asked the 
Princess sharply. " Are you in love with any one else ? " 
"No! But — " 
"I had never seen your father when our marriage 
was arranged," the Princess observed. 
"And you were very unhappy together," Sabina 
answered promptly. "You always say so." 
" Oh, unhappy ? I am not so sure, now. Certainly 
not nearly so miserable as half the people I know. 
After all, what is happiness, child ? Doing what you 
please, is it not ? " 
Sabina had not thought of this definition, and she 
laughed, without accepting it. In one way, everything 
looked suddenly bright and cheerful, since her mother 
had believed her story, and she knew that she was not 
to go back to the Baroness, who had not believed her 
at all, and had called her bad names. 
" And I almost always did as I pleased," the Princess 
continued, after a moment's reflection. "The only 
trouble was that your dear father did not always like 
what I did. He was a very religious man. That was 
what ruined us. He gave half his income to charities 
and then scolded me because I could not live on the 
other half. Besides, he turned the Ten Command- 
ments into a hundred. It was a perfect multiplication 
table of things one was not to do." 
Poor Sabina's recollections of her father had nothing 
of affection in them, and she did not feel called upon to 
defend his memory. Like many weak but devout men, 
he had been severe to his children, even to cruelty, 
while perfectly incapable of controlling his wife's 
caprices. 
" I remember, though I was only a little girl when he 
died," Sabina said. 
" Is Malipieri very religious ? " the Princess asked. 
"I mean, does he make a fuss about having fish on 
Fridays?" She spoke quite gravely. 
 
" I fancy not," Sabina answered, seeing nothing odd 
in her mother's implied definition of righteousness. 
"He never talked to me about religion, I am sure." 
" Thank God ! " exclaimed the Princess devoutly. 
" He always says he is a republican," Sabina remarked, 
glad to talk about him. 
" Really ? " The Princess was interested. " I adore 
revolutionaries," she said thoughtfully. " They always 
have something to say. I have always longed to meet 
a real anarchist." 
" Signer Malipieri is not an anarchist," said Sabina. 
" Of course not, child ! I never said he was. All 
anarchists are shoemakers or miners, or something like 
that. I only said that I always longed to meet one. 
People who do not value their lives are generally amus- 
ing. When I was a girl, I was desperately in love 
with a cousin of mine who drove a four-in-hand down 
a flight of steps, and won a bet by jumping on a wild 
bear's back. He was always doing those things. I 
loved him dearly." The Princess laughed. 
" What became of him ? " Sabina asked. 
"He shot himself one day in Geneva, poor boy, 
because he was bored. I was always sorry, though 
they would not have let me marry him, because he 
had lost all his money at cards." The Princess sighed. 
" Of course you want a lot of new clothes, my dear," 
she said, changing the subject rather suddenly. " Have 
you nothing but that to wear ? " 
Sabina's things had not yet come from the Via 
Ludovisi. She explained that she had plenty of clothes. 
" I fancy they are nothing but rags," her mother 
answered incredulously. " We shall have to go to 
Paris in any case for your trousseau. You cannot 
get anything here." 
" But we have no money," objected Sabina. 
" As if that made any difference ! We can always 
get money, somehow. What a child you are ! " 
Sabina said nothing, for she knew that her mother 
always managed to have what she wanted, even when 
it looked quite impossible. The girl had been brought 
up in the atmosphere of perpetual debt and borrowing 
which seemed natural to the Princess, and nothing of 
that sort surprised her, though it was all contrary to 
her own instinctively conscientious and honourable 
nature. 
Her mother had always been a mystery to her, and 
now, as Sabina sat near her, she crossed her feet, which 
were encased in a pair of the Princess's slippers, and 
looked at her as she had often looked before, wondering 
how such a reckless, scatter-brained, almost penniless 
woman could have remained the great personage which 
the world always considered her to be, and that,,too, 
without the slightest effort on her part to maintain her 
position. 
Then Sabina reflected upon the Baroness's existence, 
which was one long struggle to reach a social elevation 
not even remotely rivalling that of the Princess Conti ; 
a struggle in which she was armed with a large fortune, 
with her husband's political power, with the most 
