stare at the people who go by; so they wait also 
and stare at the thoughts that others have 
thought. 
" If one touches them with the hands, they 
make dust around them like meal-sacks, and in- 
voluntarily; but who could guess that their dust 
comes from corn and the golden rapture of the sum- 
mer fields? 
" Too far away into the future I flew; a hor- 
ror overcame me. And as I looked around me, 
there was Time my only companion. 
" Then I flew backward, homeward — and 
ever faster: so I came to you, men of the present, 
and to the Land of Culture. 
" For the first time I brought an eye for you, 
and good wishes; truly, with longing in my heart 
I came. 
" And what happened to me? Frightened 
as I was — I had to laugh. Never had my eyes 
seen anything so color-besprinkled! 
" I laughed and laughed while my foot still 
trembled, and my heart too: ' Here is the home 
of all paint-pots!' said I. 
" Painted over with fifty spots in face and 
limbs; so sat ye there, to my amazement, ye 
men of the present ! . . . 
" Written all over with the signs of the past, 
and also these signs painted over with new signs; 
so you have hidden yourself well from all sign- 
readers! . . . 
" All Times and Principles look piebald out 
of your coverings; all Customs and Faiths speak 
piebald out of your features. . . . 
" How could ye believe, ye color-besprinkled ! 
— who are pictures of everything that ever was 
beheved! . . . 
" Ah, whither shall I go now with my long- 
ing? " 
" Who are pictures of everything that ever 
was believed! Who are pictures of everything 
that ever was believed!" I read that and I 
slapped my knees and I lay back and laughed 
like a very Falstaff. " Pictures of everything 
that ever was believed!" Ho, ho, ho! 
— That is some of Nietzsche! 
January 8th. 
To-day it snowed hard, and it occurred to 
me that I might add to my money. I bought a 
second-hand shovel and went out to shovel snow. 
It is not so bad, I said, you are out of doors, and 
also you can think of Nietzsche. 
I made a dollar and a half, but I fear I did not 
think very much. My hands were cold, for one 
thing, and my shoes thin, for another. 
There is nothing that brings me down like 
physical toil. It is madness to believe that you 
can do anything else — you drudge and drudge, 
and your mind is an absolute blank while you do 
it. It is a thing that sets me wild with nervous- 
ness and impatience. I hate it! I hate it! 
And I find myself crying out and protesting 
against it; and then I see other men not minding 
it, and I hear the words of my dear clergyman 
friend: " The labor which all of us have to share." 
So I say to myself: Perhaps I am really an idler 
then! A poor unhappy fool that can not face 
life's sternness, that is crying out to escape his 
duty! 
That I could say such a thing — O God, 
what sign is that of how far I have fallen! Of 
how much I have yielded! — 
A vapor, heavy, hueless, formless, cold ! 
Leave it to time! Leave it to time! 
— I hear that, and I hear around me the 
laughter of mocking demons. It startles my soul 
— but no longer to rage as it used to. I sit and 
stare at it with a great, heavy numbness possess- 
ing me. 
January 12th. 
I am still reading Nietzsche. I think I shall 
read all that he has written. I am always kept 
aware of the limitations, but he is a tremendous 
man. Can you guess how this took hold of 
me? — 
THE GRAVE-SONG 
" There lies the island of graves, the silent; 
there are also the graves of my youth. Thither 
will I carry an evergreen wreath of life." 
Thus resolving in my heart, I went over the 
sea. — 
Oh ye visions and apparitions of my youth! 
Oh all ye glances of love, ye godlike moments! 
How swiftly you died in me! I remember you 
to-day as my dead. 
From you, my dearest dead, there comes to 
me a sweet odor, heart-melting, tear-melting. 
Truly it shakes and melts the heart of the lonely 
seaman. 
Still am I the richest and the most to be en- 
vied — I, the most lonely. For I had you, and 
you have me still; say, to whom fell, as to me, 
such rose-apples from the trees? . . . 
Me to kill, they strangled you, you song-birds 
of my hopes. Yea, at you, the dearest, shot wick- 
edness its arrows — to strike my heart! . . . 
This word will I speak to my enemies: 
" What is all murder of man beside that which 
ye did to me? " 
Thus, in the good hour, spake my purity: 
" Godlike shall all being be to me." 
Then ye fell upon me with your foul spirits; 
ah, whither now hath the good hour fled? 
" All days shall be holy to me " — so spake 
once the wisdom of my youth; truly the speech 
of a happy wisdom. 
But then you enemies stole away my nights 
and sold them to sleepless torment; ah, whither 
now hath the happy wisdom fled? . . . 
As a blind man once I went a blissful way; 
then you threw rubbish in the blind man's way; 
and now he is weary of the old blind ascend- 
ings. . . . 
And once would I dance as never had I 
danced before; above all the heavens away would 
I dance. And then you lured away my dearest 
singer! . . . 
Only in the dance can I speak metaphors of 
the highest things: — and now my highest meta- 
phor remained unspoken in my limbs! 
Unspoken and undelivered remained my 
highest hope! And there died all the visions and 
solaces of my youth! 
That thing brought the tears down my 
cheeks. It is what my soul has cried all day and 
all night — that I see all my joy and all my beauty 
going! 
It is the fearful, the agonizing waiting that 
does it. I know it — I put it down — there is noth- 
ing kills the soul in a man so much as that. When 
you wait your life is outside of yourself; you 
hope, — you are at the mercy of others — at the 
mercy of indifference and accident and God 
knows what. 
But again I cry, "What can I do? If 
there is anything I have not done — tell me! 
Tell me!" 
Here I sit, and I have but seven dollars left to 
my name, including what I made by the shovel- 
ing. And I sit and watch the day creep on me 
like a wild beast on its prey — the day when I must 
go back into the world and toil again! Oh, it 
will kill me — it will kill me ! 
I sit and wait and hang upon the faint 
chance of one publisher more. It is my only 
chance, — and such a chance! I find myself 
calculating, wondering; yes, famous books 
have been rejected often, and still found 
their mark. Can I still believe that this book 
will shake men? 
Ah, God, in my soul I do not believe it, be- 
cause I have lost my inspiration ! I have let go of 
that fire that was to drive like a wind-storm over 
the world. 
Yes, I ask myself if such things can be! I ask 
myself if they were real, all those fervors and all 
that boldness of mine! If it was natural, that way 
that Hived! 
— Oh, and then I look back, and my heart 
grows sick within me. 
So I spend my time, and when I turn and try 
to lose myself in Nietzsche, his mercilessness 
flings me into new despair. 
January i8th. 
I have the terrible gift of insensibihty; and 
I think my insensibility torments me more than 
anything else in the world. 
I have no life, no power, no feeling, natu- 
rally — it is all my will, it is all effort. And now 
that I am not striving, I sink back into a state of 
numbness, of dull, insensible despair. I no longer 
feel anything, I no longer care about anything. 
I pass my time in helpless impotence — and day 
by day I watch a thing creeping upon me as in 
a nightmare. I must go out into the world again 
and slave for my bread ! 
— Oh, then I will feel something, I think! 
Another week and more is gone, and I have 
but a little over four dollars. 
January 20th. 
I have stopped reading Nietzsche. I could 
not stand any more of it. It does not satisfy me. 
It is not merely that I am so weak now, and 
that his mocking goads me. I would have been 
through with him in any case. He is so narrow 
— so one-sided. 
It is reaction from the present, of course, that 
accounts for it. Too much gazing upon the 
world, that has led him to believe that love of 
man necessarily implies compromise. 
There are two words that are absent from his 
writings — they are love and humanity; and so it 
never satisfies you, you are always discontented, 
you have always to correct and supply. 
January 22d. 
Oh why do those publishers take so long! I 
wait and yearn; I grow sick with waiting and 
yearning. 
I never allowed any weakness in my soul be- 
fore; I never made any terms with it. I blamed 
everything upon myself. And now that my 
whole life is weakness and misery, I writhe and 
struggle — I turn back always on myself, suspect- 
ing myself, blaming myself. I can not lay it to 
the world, I can not get into the habit — it is such 
a miserable habit! How many millions there are 
of them — poor, querulous wretches, blaming 
their fate, crying out against the world's injus- 
tice and neglect — crying out against the need of 
working, wishing for this and that — discontent- 
ed, impotent, miserable! Oh my God — and I am 
one of such ! 
I can not bear the sound of my own voice 
when I complain! I hear the world answering 
me — and I take the part of the world! " Why 
don't you be a man and go out and earn your 
way? Why don't you face your fate? You prate 
about your message — what business has a man 
with a message that is too much for him? What 
business have you with weakness — what excuse 
have you for weakness? " 
And so I came to see it. The world is right 
and I am all wrong! And the truth of it burns 
me like an acid in my brain. 
January 24th. 
And all the time my whole being is still rest- 
less with the storms that raged in it last spring! 
I have all those memories, all that poignancy. I 
can not realize it — any of what I was and had — 
but I know it as a fact, a memory, and I crouch 
and tremble, I grow sick with it. 
Why don't they write to me? My money is 
going! 
January 26th. 
The reason that I shudder so at the prospect 
of having to face the world again, is that I have 
no hope. I have no hope! Once I could go out 
into that helHsh market. I could be any man's 
slave, do any drudgery — because I saw a light 
ahead — I saw deliverance — I had a purpose! 
And now what purpose have I — what hope 
have I ? I tell you I am a man in a trap ! I can do 
nothing! I can do no more than if I were walled 
in with iron! 
I say that my business in this world is to be a 
poet! I say that there is only one thing I can do 
— only one way that I can get free — and that is 
by doing my work, by writing books. And I 
have done all that I can do, I have earned my 
freedom — and no one will give it to me! Oh, I 
shall die if I am penned here much longer! 
I eat out my heart, I burn up my very en- 
trails in my frenzies. Set me free! Set me free! 
I thought to-day if I only had a little money 
— if I could only publish that book myself! I can 
not believe that men would not love it — I can 
not — no, you may crush me all you please, but I 
can not! And I would take it and shout it from 
the housetops — I would peddle it on the streets 
— I would make the world hear me! 
— And then I sink back, and I hear the world 
say, " You poor fool! " 
January 28th. 
I have onh' a dollar and a half left! I have 
sat, shuddering and waiting, all that I dare; the 
end is come now, I must look for work to-mor- 
row. It is hke a death-sentence to me. I could 
do nothing to-night. 
January 29th. 
Providence came to help me to-night for 
once ! It snowed to-day and I have been hard at 
w ork again. 
January 30th. 
Some more snow. ]My hands were nearly 
frost-bitten, but I keep at it; for at least it is 
out in the air, and it gives me a little longer 
respite. 
In the afternoon I made up my mind to go 
and see the publishers and ask them if they could 
not read the story at once — it has been a month. 
I saw their literary manager; he said he was go- 
ing to read it himself. 
January 31st. 
More snow again to-daj'. And I have made 
over five dollars. But I have come out of it more 
dead than alive — dulled, dispirited, utterly worn 
out. 
If I could only be an animal for a time. But 
each day of the drudgery only makes me wilder 
with nervousness. 
February ist. 
They regret, of course, and hold the MS. at 
my disposal. I went up to get it this afternoon, 
and half by accident I met the man I had seen be- 
fore. I had a talk with him. He was a very curi- 
ous personage. 
He seemed to have been interested in The 
Captive. " I'll tell you," he said, " you know 
there's really some extraordinary work in that 
poem. I believe that you have it in you to make 
some literature before you get through, Mr. Stir- 
ling." 
" Do you? " I said. 
" Yes," he replied, " I feel pretty sure of it. 
You ask me to tell you about it — so you mustn't 
mind if I speak frankly. And of course it's very 
crude. You haven't found your voice yet, you're 
seeking for mastery, and your work is obviously 
young. Anybody can see in a few lines that it's 
young — it's one of those things like Goetz von 
Berlichingen, or Die Rauber — you tear a passion 
to tatters, you want to rip the universe up the 
back. But of course that wears off by and by; it 
isn't well to take life too seriously, you know, 
and I don't think it'll be long before you come 
to feel that The Captive isn't natural or possible 
— or desirable either." 
The publisher was smoking a cigar. He 
puffed for a moment and then he asked, " What 
are you doing now? " 
" Nothing just at present," said I. 
" I should have supposed you'd be writing an- 
other poem," he replied, — " though of course as 
a matter of fact the wisest thing you can do is to 
wait and learn. Your next book will be entirely 
different, you can be quite sure — you won't be so 
anxious to get hold of all the world and make it 
go your way." 
I smiled feebly. " Possibly not," I said. 
" I'll tell you a story," said the publisher — 
"speaking about youthful aspirations! I was 
talking to Mr. X last night, the author of 
.* You wouldn't think X was the sort 
of man to be reforming the world, would you? 
But he told me about his earliest work, that he 
said he had tucked away in a drawer, and it turned 
* The manuscript names an extremely popular historical 
novel. 
out he was like all other authors. This was a 
socialist story, it seems, and the hero delivered 
fiery speeches six pages long. And X said 
that he had written it and taken it to a publisher, 
expecting to upset the world a week after it ap- 
peared, but that he never could get anybody to 
publish it, and gave it up finally and went into 
journalism. The funny part of it was that he had 
sent it here, and when he told me about it, I re- 
membered looking it over and writing him just 
about what I'm telling you." 
The publisher smoked for a moment or two. 
" You see, Mr. Stirling," he said at last, " he 
had to wait ten years before he ' arrived.' So 
you must not be discouraged. Have you read 
his book? " 
" No, I have not." 
" It is a very pretty piece of work — it's been 
many months since it came out, but they say it's 
still selling in the thousands. Don't get dis- 
couraged, Mr. Stirling, keep at it, because you 
have real talent, I assure you." 
I rose to go, and he shook my hand. " Take 
my advice," he said, " and write something 
more practicable than a tragedy. But of course 
don't forget in any case that we shall always 
be very happy to read anything of yours at 
any time." 
— I walked down the street meditating. I 
will get over it again, of course; but to-night I 
sat in the dark and the cold, shivering. And I 
asked myself if it must not be so after all. " Is it 
true, the thing that I did; is it natural F " I said. 
" Or must it not be exaggerated and crude, as 
they all tell me! And uninteresting! — What is 
the use of it? I tormented myself that way and 
tore myself to pieces, but it does not stir any one 
else." 
Ah, of course it's all dead in me — and I'm 
prepared to believe anything they tell me! It's 
overwrought, it's young, it's pitched in too high 
a key, it's strained and unnatural, it takes life too 
seriously! Certainly at any rate they are right 
that I shall never, never do the same thing again. 
But unfortunately I don't feel like writing 
anything else. I don't know anything about his- 
torical novels. 
— I would have read some of the poem again 
to-night, but I'm too discouraged. I am tired 
of it. I know it by heart, and it doesn't take hold 
of me. 
I have been too long among men, I groan. 
I see their point of view too well! 
Why, there are things in that book that when 
I read them now make me shudder. I have hardly the courage to offer it to any one else to read. 
I don't know any one to take it to, besides. 
God, I'm so unhappy! 
February 3d. 
To-day an idea occurred to me, one that 
should have occurred before. Once upon a time 
I was introduced to the editor of the . Per- 
haps he will not remember it, I said. But any- 
how, why not try? I will take him The Captive 
— perhaps he can use it in the magazine — who 
knows? 
Iknew nothing better to do, so I went there. 
He was very polite — he did remember my face. 
He was fearfully busy, it seemed. He did not 
think there was much likelihood of a magazine's 
publishing a blank-verse tragedy; but I told him 
how I had worked, and he said he'd read it. 
And so there's one chance more! 
My poor, foolish heart is always ready to 
tremble with new hope. But faith in that book 
was so ground into it! 
— I asked him to read it at once, I explained 
that I was in great haste. I think he understood 
what I meant. My clothes show it. 
I have been hoarding my money — counting 
every cent. I dread the world so! Now that I 
am so broken, so laden with misery, it sounds 
about me as one jeer of mockery. But I shall 
have to be hunting a place soon — you never can 
tell how long it may take you, and the chances are 
so terrible. 
I will not do anything until I hear from this 
one man, however. He promised to let me know 
in a week. 
I did not see him at the publisher's — he has 
another office besides. He had huge piles of pa- 
pers and books about him; he is an important 
man, I guess; can it be that he will be the one to 
save me? 
I think: "Oh if he knew, he would!" I 
find myself thinking that of all the world — if 
I could only make them understand! Poor, 
impotent wretch, if I could only find the 
word! 
— Or is it simply my blind egotism that 
makes me think that? 
February 6th. 
I do not think that what I write can be of 
much interest. It must be monotonous — all this 
despair, this endless crying out, this endless repe- 
tition of the same words, the same thought. 
Yet that is all that my life is! That is just 
what I do every day — whenever I am not read- 
ing a book to forget myself. 
It is all so simple, my situation! That is the 
most terrible thing about it, it is the same thing 
always and forever. 
I have lived so much agony through this 
thing — it would not startle me if I saw that my 
hair had turned white. I know I feel like an old 
man. I am settled down into mournfulness, into 
despair; I can do nothing but gaze back — I have 
lived my life — I have spent my force — I am tired 
and sick. 
I! I! I! — do you get tired of hearing it? 
It was not always like that; once you read a 
little about a book. 
February 8th. 
This is the fifth day. I am counting the days, 
I have been counting the very hours. He said 
he would be a week. And I — only think of it — 
I have but two dollars and sixty cents left! 
Hurry up ! Hurry up ! 
— And then I say with considerable scorn in 
my voice: " Haven't you learned enough about 
that manuscript yet? And about publishers 
yet?" 
February loth. 
Just imagine ! I went to see him to-day, and 
he stared at me. " Why, sure enough, Mr. Stir- 
hng! — It had slipped my mind entirely! " 
I have learned to bear things. I asked him 
calmly to let me know as soon as possible. He 
said: "I am honestly so rushed that I do not 
know where to turn. But I will do the best I 
possibly can." 
I said — poor, pitiful cringing, is it not ter- 
rible? — that I'd be up his way again in three 
days, and did he think he could have it read 
by then. He said he was not sure, but that 
he'd try. 
And so I went away. Now I have two dollars 
and twenty-three cents. I have to pay my rent 
to-morrow, and that will leave me a dollar and a 
half. I can make that do me seven or eight days 
— I have one or two things at home. I'll wait 
the three days — and then I'll have to set out in 
earnest to find something to do. 
Oh, the horror of not knowing if you can pay 
your next week's room rent in this fearful city! 
February nth. 
I sat and looked at myself to-day. I said: 
" When a soul is crushed like this, can it ever get 
up again? Can it ever be the same, no matter 
what happens? Don't you see the fact, that 
you've been tamed and broken — that you've 
given in! And how will you ever rise from the 
shame of it, how will you ever forget it? All this 
skulking and trembling — how will you ever dare 
look yourself in the face again! Will not it mock 
your every effort? Why, you poor wretch, 
you've got a broken back! " 
February 12th. 
And to-morrow again I must go there, trem- 
bling and nervous, hanging on a word! 
There is not much sense in it, but I have 
learned to hate all men who have ease and power. 
February 13th. 
I knew it! I could have told it beforehand. 
" I am awfully sorry, Mr. Stirling, but it is no 
use talking, I simply can not! I will write you 
just as soon as ever I get it read." 
And so I came out. I had a dollar and twenty 
cents. My rent would be due in four days again. 
So even if I got some work at once I should have 
to pawn something. 
— Thus I began my search for a situation. 
I could not choose — I was willing to take any- 
thing. 
I fear I look like a tramp; but I have several 
letters from places where I have worked. Still, I 
could not find anything. I have tramped all 
day until I could hardly move. I bought a 
paper, but everything advertised was gone by 
that time. 
If it would only snow again, so that I could 
shovel some more! 
February 14th. 
Again I have been pacing the streets the 
whole endless day, beaten back and rebuffed at 
every turn. I have been drilled for this, this is 
the climax! First take every gleam of heart out 
of me, and then set me to pacing the streets in 
the cold, to be stared at and insulted by every 
kind of a man ! 
And still nothing to do. 
February 15th. 
I take my lunch with me — I have cut myself 
down to twenty cents a day for food. I walk and 
walk, and I am so hungry I can not do on less 
than that. I have but sixty cents left to-night. 
I failed again to-day. 
February i6th. 
It is not as desperate as it sounds, because I 
have a few books and things that I can sell — I do 
not believe that I will actually starve — I have 
always done my work well, and have gotten 
references. But O God, the shame of it — the 
endless, heapedrup bitterness! 
I have sunk into a beast of burden. I trudge 
on with my mind torpid — I take whatever comes 
to me, and go on mechanically. Oh it cows me, 
it wears me down! I have learned to bear any- 
thing — anything! A man might kick me and I 
would not mind. 
I think I went to fifty places yesterday. 
Nothing to do — nothing. To-day is Sunday, but 
I tried even to-day. I came home to get some 
dinner. — I might have been a porter in a hotel, 
and carried trunks — that was my one chance. 
But I have not the physical power for that. 
— And then after all — toward evening — when 
I was so tired I was almost wild — I had an offer 
at last! And guess what it was — of all the things 
that I had made up my mind I could not bear 
— to be a waiter! 
It is, I believe, what a man should call a rare 
opportunity. It is a fairly good restaurant just 
ofif Broadway; and I get ten dollars and tips. 
Poor me! My heart bounded for a moment, and 
then I asked myself. And what do you want with 
money any more? I took the place, and I am to 
begin the day after to-morrow. I am so tired I 
can hardly move. 
February 17th. 
Was it not irony? I have watched day by day 
for snow; and now that I have taken the other 
place — behold, to-day it snows a foot! 
— I went to see the editor in the afternoon. 
I was desperate at the thought of to-morrow. I 
said I would tell him! — But when I got there I 
only had the courage to inquire about the 
poem. He had not read it. I feared he seemed 
annoyed. 
I shall not go there again for a week. I can 
not make him hurry. 
Februai-y i8th. 
To-day I had to begin by apologizing to my 
landlady, and begging her to let me pay her a 
week later. I had to go into an elaborate expla- 
nation — she wanted to know why I had not been 
working all these months, and so on. She has a 
red face, and drinks, I think. 
Then I had to take a load of my best books — 
my poor, few precious books that I have loved 
— and sell them at a second-hand bookstore. 
When I had sold them I had to hire a waiter's 
suit for a week, until I had money to buy it. And 
then with that awful thing on I went down to the 
restaurant. 
Can you imagine how a pure woman would 
feel if she had to go into a brothel to live? That 
was just how I felt — just how! Oh my God, the 
indignity of it! Is there anything that I could do 
more humiliating? 
— But I have lost the power of getting angry. 
Only my heart is one great sob. 
February 20th. 
Oh, that hellish place! What is there in this 
whole city more brutal than that restaurant? 
Day and night, day and night, to see but one 
thing — to see flashy, overdressed, fat and vulgar 
men and women gorging themselves! Oh, this 
will teach me to feel — this at least! I go about 
with my whole being one curse of rage — I could 
throttle them ! And to bow and smirk and lackey 
them — all day! All day! Oh, what shall I do — 
how shall I bear it? 
They offer me tips. At first I thought I 
should refuse; but no, I dare not do that, even if 
I wanted to. And since I have stooped to do it, 
I will take all I can get. To get money is my one 
passion now. Oh my God, how can I bear it! 
February 21st. 
I said to-day, I must fight this thing — I must, 
or it will kill me; I can not let myself go to wreck 
in this fashion — Vve got to fight! 
And so I got my note-book; and I fell to 
work to drive myself as of old. The effort that it 
cost me made me ill, but I did it. I shall keep on 
doing it — I am like a man faced by a fiend — I 
must keep on — I must! 
But then, why do you want to have new lan- 
guages? Do you not know enough now to keep 
you in reading matter for all the time you are ever 
likely to have? 
February 24th. 
Oh, one can get used to even a flashy restau- 
rant ! It is your fate — you take it. This is how 
I pass all my time there. I struggle to resist the 
deadening of it, and the horror of it; while I am 
going about the loathsome grind I try to think — 
try to have some idea in my head. And some- 
thing comes to me — something beautiful, per- 
haps; and then in a few moments, in the clatter 
and confusion, I lose it; and after that I go about 
haunted, restless, feeling that I have lost some- 
thing, that I ought to be doing something. 
What the thing is, I do not even know — but so it 
drives me and drives me! 
I spend literally hours that way. 
February 25th. 
When are you going to read that poem — 
when? The week was gone yesterday — but I 
will not trouble you, even now! I wait, I wait! 
February 27th. 
There is another torment about this fearful 
place that I am in, one that you could not im- 
agine. I had thought that it would be a pleas- 
ure, but it tears my soul. They have music in the 
evening; and fancy a person in my state listening 
to a violin ! 
Chiefly, of course, they play trash; but some- 
times there comes something beautiful, perhaps 
only a phrase. But it takes hold of my soul, it 
makes my eyes grow dim, it makes me shudder. 
It is all my pent-up agony, it is all my sleeping 
passion — why, it overwhelms me! And I am 
helpless — I can not get away from it! 
Remember that I have not heard any music 
for a year. It is like the voice of a dead love to 
me. I thought to-night that I could not bear it. 
March ist. 
To-day I had a day ofif, and I went to see 
the editor. I have been waiting, day by day, 
for a letter; it has been a month since I left 
it with him, and I found that he had not read 
it yet! 
" Mr. Stirling," he said, " it is not my fault, it 
has simply been impossible. Now I will tell you 
what to do. I am going out of the city Sunday 
week, and I shall have a little leisure then. I do 
not see how I can get to it before that, so you 
take it and see if you can find some one else to 
read it meanwhile. If you will bring it to me. 
Saturday, a week from to-day, I will promise you 
faithfully to read it on Sunday." 
So I took the manuscript. I tried four pub- 
lishing houses, but I could not find one that 
would read it in a week. I had to take the manu- 
script home. 
March 3d. 
To-morrow ends my second week at the res- 
taurant. It took me five days to find that place, 
but I am going to give it up to-morrow. I could 
not bear it, if it were to save my life. I can not 
bear the noise and the grease and the dirt, and the 
endless, endless vulgarity; but above all I can 
not bear the music. 
I can bear almost any degradation, I have 
found; but not when I have to listen to music! 
Besides, I can afiford to give it up. I have 
made a fortune. I shall have over thirty dollars 
when I leave! 
I have always been paid, I find, in proportion 
to the indignities I bore — in proportion to the 
amount I humiliated myself before the rich and 
the vulgar. These vile, bejeweled, befeathered 
women, these loathsome, swinish men — these 
are the people who have money to spend. They 
go through the world scattering their largess 
with royal hand; and you can get down and 
gather it up out of the mud beneath their feet. 
I come home at night worn out and weak, 
sometimes almost in a stupor; but I am never 
too ill to brood over that hideous state of afifairs. 
I gaze at it and I wring my hands, and I cry: Oh 
my Father in heaven, will it always be like this? 
Think of it — this money that these people 
squander — do you know what it is? It is the toil 
of society ! That is what it is, — it is my toil — it is 
the toil of the millions that swarm in the tene- 
ments where I live — it is the toil of the laborers, 
the beasts of burden of society, in the cities and 
in the country. 
Think about it, I cry, think about it! — Can I 
not find any word, is there nothing I can do or say 
now or at any time, to make men see it? Why, 
you take it for granted — I have taken it for grant- 
ed all my days — that money should belong to the 
brutal rich to squander in whatever inanity may 
please them! But it never dawns upon you that 
this money is the toil of the human race! Money 
is the representation of all that human toil cre- 
ates — of all value; it is houses that laborers build, 
it is grain that farmers raise, it is books that 
poets \Tite! And see what becomes of it — see! 
sec' Or are you blind or mad, that you zvill not 
see? Have you no more faith in man, no more 
care about the soul? 
You think that I have been made sick by my 
work in that one haunt of vice. But it is not 
only that, it is not only that fever district where 
all the diseases of a city gather. I have been 
all ozer the city, and it is everywhere the same. 
Go to the opera-house any night and you may 
see blasphemous vanity enough to feed the starr- 
ing of this city for a year. Walk up Fifth Ave- 
nue and see them driving; or go to Xeport and 
see them there, why, I read in the papers once 
of a woman who gave a ball — and the little fact 
has stuck in my mind ever since that she wore 
a dress trimmed with lace that cost a thousand 
dollars a meter! I do not speak of the infinite 
%ailgarity of the thing — it is the monstrous crime 
of it that cries to me. These people — why, they 
have society by the throat! 
I bury my face in my pillow and sob : but then 
I look up and pray for faith. I say we are 
only at the beginning of civilization, we can 
see but the first gleams of a social conscience; 
but it will come — it must come! Am I to be- 
lieve that mankind will always submit to toil 
and pant to make lace at a thousand dollars a 
meter to cover the pride-swollen carcase of a 
society dame? 
How is it to be managed? I do not know. 
I am not a political economist — I am a seeker 
after righteousness. But as a poet, and as a clear- 
eyed soul, I stand upon the heights and I cry out 
for it, I demand it. I demand that society shall 
come to its own, I demand that there shall be in- 
telligence in the world! I demand that the toil 
of the millions shall not be for the pride of the 
few! I demand that it shall not be to buy dia- 
monds and dresses and banquets, horses and car- 
riages, palaces and yachts! I demand that it 
shall be for the making of knowledge and power, 
of beauty and light and love! 
Oh, thou black jungle of a world! — What 
know you of knowledge and power, of beauty 
and light and love? What do you dream of these 
things? The end of man as you know it is to fight 
and struggle like a maniac, and grab for his own 
all that he can lay his claws upon. And what is 
your social ideal — but to lavish, each man upon 
himself, all that he can lavish before he dies? And 
whom do you honor save him who succeeds in 
that? And whom do you scorn save him who 
fails? 
Oh thou black jungle of a world! — I cry it 
once again — 
Where savage beasts through forest midnight roam, 
Seeking in sorrow for each other's joy ! 
I sit alone and think of these things, until my 
breath comes hard with rage. I say: " It is these 
that I serve — it is these who own the fruits of my 
toil — it is these for whom I am starved and 
crushed — it is these by whom my God-given 
power is trampled into annihilation! " 
March 4th. 
I gave the place up this morning. I have 
thirty-one dollars. I think such a sum of money 
never made me less happy. 
I have nothing to do but drag myself back to 
my room and wait there until the eighth, to take 
back my manuscript. It will be five weeks that 
he has kept me — I suppose that is not his fault. 
And then I say: " Fool, to torment yourself 
with such hopes! Don't you know that he will 
say what all the rest have said? He is a clever 
man, and he knows everything; but what use is 
he going to have for your poetry? " 
I wandered about almost all of to-day, or sat 
stupid in my room. I have lost all my habits of 
efifort — I have forgotten all that I ever knew, all 
my hopes, all my plans. I said: " I will study! " 
But then I added: " Why should I? Shall I not 
only make myself miserable, get myself full of 
emotion, and to no purpose but the carrying of 
dishes? " 
It is terrible to me to have to acknowledge 
any change in my way of living — I never did that 
before. Compromises! Concessions! Surren- 
ders! — words such as those set me mad. But 
what am I to do? What can I do? I writhe 
and twist, but there is no escape. I struggle up- 
ward, but I am only beaten back and back? How 
should I not stop striving? 
Circumstances made no difiference to a man. 
So I used to prate! 
No difference! Why, I was a giant in my 
soul, swift and terrible as the lion. I leaped 
upon my task, I seized upon everything that 
came my way. I passed whole classes of men 
at a bound, I saw, I felt — I bore the world in 
my soul. I would dare everything, learn every- 
thing, live everything — take it all into myself. 
And every day I was stronger, every day I was 
more ! — 
And now see me ! You have penned me here, 
you have starved me, stunted me, crushed me — 
I sit shivering and staring at my own piteousness! 
Why, I can not even be angry any more — I am 
too shrunken, too impotent for that! And was 
it my fault? Have I not fought till I was ill? 
— But never did I put forth a hope that it 
was not withered in the bud! My every enthusi- 
asm you stamped into the ground; every ad- 
vance that I made — why you smote me in the 
face! And all my ardor, my confidence, my 
trust — has it ever met with anything but jeers? 
— Yes, and now you turn away — this revolts 
you! This is bare, painful egotism — this is whi- 
ning — this is querulous misery. It offends you 
like the sight of raw flesh! 
— It is my raw soul. My poor little naked, 
pitiful, beaten soul! — groveling, and begging, 
too! 
— But whose fault is it — merciful Heaven, 
whose fault is it? It is my nature to live in my- 
self — to live from myself. And this that is un- 
bearable egotism, why, it would have been exult- 
ing power! Joy in a vision! Mastery of a life 
and an art ! 
But here you shut me up! You crush me 
down! I try to escape — I cry out: " I am not an 
egotist — I am a worshiper! I want nothing in 
the world so much as to forget myself — my 
rights, my claims, my powers, my talents! I 
want to think of God! Only give me a chance — 
only give me a chance to do that, and I care 
not what you do with me ! Here I stand with my 
poor little work, begging, pleading for some one 
to heed it! Thinking of it only, living for it 
only, insisting upon it day and night! But do 
you think that I do that of choice? My God, 
no — you are mad — I only want to go on! Give 
me but the chance to go on — and do you think 
that I would care whether any man admired my 
work? " 
— Why, I would not even know it — I would 
be out in the mountains alone! 
" But for what had you your pride in the 
morning, and in the evening your submission? " 
Can you guess how that jeer rings in my ears, 
how it goads me? 
March 5th. 
Sinking down! Sinking down! To see your- 
