piles.
"She lay there, breathing fast and deep, dripping with spray. I had no
power of speech left, but when I rose wearily to my knees and looked
out upon the water my blood ran cold. Above the ocean, on the breast
of the roaring wind, three enormous birds sailed, turning and wheeling
among one another; and below, drifting with the gray stream of the
Gulf loop, a colossal bulk lay half submerged--a gigantic lizard,
floating belly upward.
"Then Daisy crept kneeling to my side and touched me, trembling from
head to foot.
"'I know,' I muttered. 'I must run back for the rifle.'
"'And--and leave me?'
"I took her by the hand, and we dragged ourselves through the
wire-grass to the open end of a boiler lying in the sand.
"She crept in on her hands and knees, and called to me to follow.
"'You are safe now,' I cried. 'I must go back for the rifle.'
"'The birds may--may attack you.'
"'If they do I can get into one of the other boilers,' I said. 'Daisy,
you must not venture out until I come back. You won't, will you?'
"'No-o,' she whispered, doubtfully.
"'Then--good-bye.'
"'Good-bye,' she answered, but her voice was very small and still.
"'Good-bye,' I said again. I was kneeling at the mouth of the big
iron tunnel; it was dark inside and I could not see her, but, before I
was conscious of it, her arms were around my neck and we had kissed
each other.
"I don't remember how I went away. When I came to my proper senses I
was swimming along the coast at full speed, and over my head wheeled
one of the birds, screaming at every turn.
"The intoxication of that innocent embrace, the close impress of her
arms around my neck, gave me a strength and recklessness that neither
fear nor fatigue could subdue. The bird above me did not even frighten
me. I watched it over my shoulder, swimming strongly, with the tide
now aiding me, now stemming my course; but I saw the shore passing
quickly, and my strength increased, and I shouted when I came in sight
of the house, and scrambled up on the sand, dripping and excited.
There was nobody in sight, and I gave a last glance up into the air
where the bird wheeled, still screeching, and hastened into the house.
Freda stared at me in amazement as I seized the rifle and shouted for
the professor.
"'He has just gone to town, with Captain McPeek in his wagon,'
stammered Freda.
"'What!' I cried. 'Does he know where his daughter is?'
"'Miss Holroyd is asleep--not?' gasped Freda.
"'Where's Frisby?' I cried, impatiently.
"'Yimmie?' quavered Freda.
"'Yes, Jimmie; isn't there anybody here? Good Heavens! where's that
man in the shop?'
"'He also iss gone,' said Freda, shedding tears, 'to buy papier-maché.
Yimmie, he iss gone to post bills.'
"I waited to hear no more, but swung my rifle over my shoulder, and,
hanging the cartridge-belt across my chest, hurried out and up the
beach. The bird was not in sight.
"I had been running for perhaps a minute when, far up on the dunes, I
saw a yellow dog rush madly through a clump of sweet-bay, and at the
same moment a bird soared past, rose, and hung hovering just above the
thicket. Suddenly the bird swooped; there was a shriek and a yelp from
the cur, but the bird gripped it in one claw and beat its wings upon
the sand, striving to rise. Then I saw Frisby--paste, bucket, and
brush raised--fall upon the bird, yelling lustily. The fierce creature
relaxed its talons, and the dog rushed on, squeaking with terror. The
bird turned on Frisby and sent him sprawling on his face, a sticky
mass of paste and sand. But this did not end the struggle. The bird,
croaking horridly, flew at the prostrate bill-poster, and the sand
whirled into a pillar above its terrible wings. Scarcely knowing what
I was about, I raised my rifle and fired twice. A scream echoed each
shot, and the bird rose heavily in a shower of sand; but two bullets
were embedded in that mass of foul feathers, and I saw the wires and
scarlet tape uncoiling on the sand at my feet. In an instant I seized
them and passed the ends around a cedar-tree, hooking the clasps
tight. Then I cast one swift glance upward, where the bird wheeled,
screeching, anchored like a kite to the pallium wires; and I hurried
on across the dunes, the shells cutting my feet and the bushes tearing
my wet swimming-suit, until I dripped with blood from shoulder to
ankle. Out in the ocean the carcass of the thermosaurus floated, claws
outspread, belly glistening in the gray light, and over him circled
two birds. As I reached the shelter I knelt and fired into the mass of
scales, and at my first shot a horrible thing occurred--the
lizard-like head writhed, the slitted yellow eyes sliding open from
the film that covered them. A shudder passed across the undulating
body, the great scaled belly heaved, and one leg feebly clawed at the
air.
"The thing was still alive!
"Crushing back the horror that almost paralyzed my hands, I planted
shot after shot into the quivering reptile, while it writhed and
clawed, striving to turn over and dive; and at each shot the black
blood spurted in long, slim jets across the water. And now Daisy was
at my side, pale and determined, swiftly clasping each tape-marked
wire to the iron rings in the circle around us. Twice I filled the
magazine from my belt, and twice I poured streams of steel-tipped
bullets into the scaled mass, twisting and shuddering on the sea.
Suddenly the birds steered towards us. I felt the wind from their vast
wings. I saw the feathers erect, vibrating. I saw the spread claws
outstretched, and I struck furiously at them, crying to Daisy to run
into the iron shelter. Backing, swinging my clubbed rifle, I
retreated, but I tripped across one of the taut pallium wires, and in
an instant the hideous birds were on me, and the bone in my forearm
snapped like a pipe-stem at a blow from their wings. Twice I struggled
to my knees, blinded with blood, confused, almost fainting; then I
fell again, rolling into the mouth of the iron boiler.
       *       *       *       *       *
"When I struggled back to consciousness Daisy knelt silently beside
me, while Captain McPeek and Professor Holroyd bound up my shattered
arm, talking excitedly. The pain made me faint and dizzy. I tried to
speak and could not. At last they got me to my feet and into the
wagon, and Daisy came, too, and crouched beside me, wrapped in
oilskins to her eyes. Fatigue, lack of food, and excitement had
combined with wounds and broken bones to extinguish the last atom of
strength in my body; but my mind was clear enough to understand that
the trouble was over and the thermosaurus safe.
"I heard McPeek say that one of the birds that I had anchored to a
cedar-tree had torn loose from the bullets and had winged its way
heavily out to sea. The professor answered: 'Yes, the ekaf-bird; the
others were ool-ylliks. I'd have given my right arm to have secured
them.' Then for a time I heard no more; but the jolting of the wagon
over the dunes roused me to keenest pain, and I held out my right hand
to Daisy. She clasped it in both of hers, and kissed it again and
again.
       *       *       *       *       *
"There is little more to add, I think. Professor Bruce Stoddard's
scientific pamphlet will be published soon, to be followed by
Professor Holroyd's sixteen volumes. In a few days the stuffed and
mounted thermosaurus will be placed on free public exhibition in the
arena of Madison Square Garden, the only building in the city large
enough to contain the body of this immense winged reptile."
       *       *       *       *       *
The young man hesitated, looking long and earnestly at Miss Barrison.
"Did you marry her?" she asked, softly.
"You wouldn't believe it," said the young man, earnestly--"you
wouldn't believe it, after all that happened, if I should tell you
that she married Professor Bruce Stoddard, of Columbia--would you?"
"Yes, I would," said Miss Barrison. "You never can tell what a girl
will do."
"That story of yours," I said, "is to me the most wonderful and
valuable contribution to nature study that it has ever been my fortune
to listen to. You are fitted to write; it is your sacred mission to
produce. Are you going to?"
"I am writing," said the young man, quietly, "a nature book. Sir Peter
Grebe's magnificent monograph on the speckled titmouse inspired me.
But nature study is not what I have chosen as my life's mission."
He looked dreamily across at Miss Barrison. "No, not natural
phenomena," he repeated, "but unnatural phenomena. What Professor
Hyssop has done for Columbia, I shall attempt to do for Harvard. In
fact, I have already accepted the chair of Psychical Phenomena at
Cambridge."
I gazed upon him with intense respect.
"A personal experience revealed to me my life's work," he, went on,
thoughtfully stroking his blond mustache. "If Miss Barrison would care
to hear it--"
"Please tell it," she said, sweetly.
"I shall have to relate it clothed in that artificial garb known as
literary style," he explained, deprecatingly.
"It doesn't matter," I said, "I never noticed any style at all in your
story of the thermosaurus."
He smiled gratefully, and passed his hand over his face; a far-away
expression came into his eyes, and he slowly began, hesitating, as
though talking to himself:
XXII
"It was high noon in the city of Antwerp. From slender steeples
floated the mellow music of the Flemish bells, and in the spire of the
great cathedral across the square the cracked chimes clashed discords
until my ears ached.
"When the fiend in the cathedral had jerked the last tuneless clang
from the chimes, I removed my fingers from my ears and sat down at one
of the iron tables in the court. A waiter, with his face shaved blue,
brought me a bottle of Rhine wine, a tumbler of cracked ice, and a
siphon.
"'Does monsieur desire anything else?' he inquired.
"'Yes--the head of the cathedral bell-ringer; bring it with vinegar
and potatoes,' I said, bitterly. Then I began to ponder on my
great-aunt and the Crimson Diamond.
"The white walls of the Hôtel St. Antoine rose in a rectangle around
the sunny court, casting long shadows across the basin of the
fountain. The strip of blue overhead was cloudless. Sparrows twittered
under the eaves the yellow awnings fluttered, the flowers swayed in
the summer breeze, and the jet of the fountain splashed among the
water-plants. On the sunny side of the piazza the tables were vacant;
on the shady side I was lazily aware that the tables behind me were
occupied, but I was indifferent as to their occupants, partly because
I shunned all tourists, partly because I was thinking of my
great-aunt.
"Most old ladies are eccentric, but there is a limit, and my
great-aunt had overstepped it. I had believed her to be wealthy--she
died bankrupt. Still, I knew there was one thing she did possess, and
that was the famous Crimson Diamond. Now, of course, you know who my
great-aunt was.
"Excepting the Koh-i-noor and the Regent, this enormous and unique
stone was, as everybody knows, the most valuable gem in existence. Any
ordinary person would have placed that diamond in a safe-deposit. My
great-aunt did nothing of the kind. She kept it in a small velvet bag,
which she carried about her neck. She never took it off, but wore it
dangling openly on her heavy silk gown.
"In this same bag she also carried dried catnip-leaves, of which she
was inordinately fond. Nobody but myself, her only living relative,
knew that the Crimson Diamond lay among the sprigs of catnip in the
little velvet bag.
"'Harold,' she would say, 'do you think I'm a fool? If I place the
Crimson Diamond in any safe-deposit vault in New York, somebody will
steal it, sooner or later.' Then she would nibble a sprig of catnip
and peer cunningly at me. I loathed the odor of catnip and she knew
it. I also loathed cats. This also she knew, and of course surrounded
herself with a dozen. Poor old lady! One day she was found dead in her
bed in her apartments at the Waldorf. The doctor said she died from
natural causes. The only other occupant of her sleeping-room was a
cat. The cat fled when we broke open the door, and I heard that she
was received and cherished by some eccentric people in a neighboring
apartment.
"Now, although my great-aunt's death was due to purely natural causes,
there was one very startling and disagreeable feature of the case. The
velvet bag containing the Crimson Diamond had disappeared. Every inch
of the apartment was searched, the floors torn up, the walls
dismantled, but the Crimson Diamond had vanished. Chief of Police
Conlon detailed four of his best men on the case, and, as I had
nothing better to do, I enrolled myself as a volunteer. I also offered
$25,000 reward for the recovery of the gem. All New York was agog.
"The case seemed hopeless enough, although there were five of us after
the thief. McFarlane was in London, and had been for a month, but
Scotland Yard could give him no help, and the last I heard of him he
was roaming through Surrey after a man with a white spot in his hair.
Harrison had gone to Paris. He kept writing me that clews were plenty
and the scent hot, but as Dennet, in Berlin, and Clancy, in Vienna,
wrote me the same thing, I began to doubt these gentlemen's ability.
"'You say,' I answered Harrison, 'that the fellow is a Frenchman, and
that he is now concealed in Paris; but Dennet writes me by the same
mail that the thief is undoubtedly a German, and was seen yesterday in
Berlin. To-day I received a letter from Clancy, assuring me that
Vienna holds the culprit, and that he is an Austrian from Trieste.
Now, for Heaven's sake,' I ended, 'let me alone and stop writing me
letters until you have something to write about.'
"The night-clerk at the Waldorf had furnished us with our first clew.
On the night of my aunt's death he had seen a tall, grave-faced man
hurriedly leave the hotel. As the man passed the desk he removed his
hat and mopped his forehead, and the night-clerk noticed that in the
middle of his head there was a patch of hair as white as snow.
"We worked this clew for all it was worth, and, a month later, I
received a cable despatch from Paris, saying that a man answering to
the description of the Waldorf suspect had offered an enormous crimson
diamond for sale to a jeweller in the Palais Royal. Unfortunately the
fellow took fright and disappeared before the jeweller could send for
the police, and since that time McFarlane in London, Harrison in
Paris, Dennet in Berlin, and Clancy in Vienna had been chasing men
with white patches on their hair until no gray-headed patriarch in
Europe was free from suspicion. I myself had sleuthed it through
England, France, Holland, and Belgium, and now I found myself in
Antwerp at the Hôtel St. Antoine, without a clew that promised
anything except another outrage on some respectable white-haired
citizen. The case seemed hopeless enough, unless the thief tried again
to sell the gem. Here was our only hope, for, unless he cut the stone
into smaller ones, he had no more chance of selling it than he would
have had if he had stolen the Venus of Milo and peddled her about the
Rue de Seine. Even were he to cut up the stone, no respectable gem
collector or jeweller would buy a crimson diamond without first
notifying me; for although a few red stones are known to collectors,
the color of the Crimson Diamond was absolutely unique, and there was
little probability of an honest mistake.
"Thinking of all these things, I sat sipping my Rhine wine in the
shadow of the yellow awnings. A large white cat came sauntering by and
stopped in front of me to perform her toilet, until I wished she would
go away. After a while she sat up, licked her whiskers, yawned once or
twice, and was about to stroll on, when, catching sight of me, she
stopped short and looked me squarely in the face. I returned the
attention with a scowl, because I wished to discourage any advances
towards social intercourse which she might contemplate; but after a
while her steady gaze disconcerted me, and I turned to my Rhine wine.
A few minutes later I looked up again. The cat was still eying me.
"'Now what the devil is the matter with the animal,' I muttered; 'does
she recognize in me a relative?'
"'Perhaps,' observed a man at the next table.
"'What do you mean by that?' I demanded.
"'What I say,' replied the man at the next table.
"I looked him full in the face. He was old and bald and appeared
weak-minded. His age protected his impudence. I turned my back on him.
Then my eyes fell on the cat again. She was still gazing earnestly at
me.
"Disgusted that she should take such pointed public notice of me, I
wondered whether other people saw it; I wondered whether there was
anything peculiar in my own personal appearance. How hard the creature
stared! It was most embarrassing.
"'What has got into that cat?' I thought. 'It's sheer impudence. It's
an intrusion, and I won't stand it!' The cat did not move. I tried to
stare her out of countenance. It was useless. There was aggressive
inquiry in her yellow eyes. A sensation of uneasiness began to steal
over me--a sensation of embarrassment not unmixed with awe. All cats
looked alike to me, and yet there was something about this one that
bothered me--something that I could not explain to myself, but which
began to occupy me.
"She looked familiar--this Antwerp cat. An odd sense of having seen
her before, of having been well acquainted with her in former years,
slowly settled in my mind, and, although I could never remember the
time when I had not detested cats, I was almost convinced that my
relations with this Antwerp tabby had once been intimate if not
cordial. I looked more closely at the animal. Then an idea struck
me--an idea which persisted and took definite shape in spite of me. I
strove to escape from it, to evade it, to stifle and smother it; an
inward struggle ensued which brought the perspiration in beads upon my
cheeks--a struggle short, sharp, decisive. It was useless--useless to
try to put it from me--this idea so wretchedly bizarre, so grotesque
and fantastic, so utterly inane--it was useless to deny that the cat
bore a distinct resemblance to my great-aunt!
"I gazed at her in horror. What enormous eyes the creature had!
"'Blood is thicker than water,' said the man at the next table.
"'What does he mean by that?' I muttered, angrily, swallowing a
tumbler of Rhine wine and seltzer. But I did not turn. What was the
use?
"'Chattering old imbecile,' I added to myself, and struck a match, for
my cigar was out; but, as I raised the match to relight it, I
encountered the cat's eyes again. I could not enjoy my cigar with the
animal staring at me, but I was justly indignant, and I did not intend
to be routed. 'The idea! Forced to leave for a cat!' I sneered. 'We
will see who will be the one to go!' I tried to give her a jet of
seltzer from the siphon, but the bottle was too nearly empty to carry
far. Then I attempted to lure her nearer, calling her in French,
German, and English, but she did not stir. I did not know the Flemish
for 'cat.'
"'She's got a name, and won't come,' I thought. 'Now, what under the
sun can I call her?'
"'Aunty,' suggested the man at the next table.
"I sat perfectly still. Could that man have answered my thoughts?--for
I had not spoken aloud. Of course not--it was a coincidence--but a
very disgusting one.
"'Aunty,' I repeated, mechanically, 'aunty, aunty--good gracious, how
horribly human that cat looks!' Then, somehow or other, Shakespeare's
words crept into my head and I found myself repeating: 'The soul of my
grandam might haply inhabit a bird; the soul of--nonsense!' I
growled--'it isn't printed correctly! One might possibly say, speaking
in poetical metaphor, that the soul of a bird might haply inhabit
one's grandam--' I stopped short, flushing painfully. 'What awful
rot!' I murmured, and lighted another cigar. The cat was still
staring; the cigar went out. I grew more and more nervous. 'What rot!'
I repeated. 'Pythagoras must have been an ass, but I do believe there
are plenty of asses alive to-day who swallow that sort of thing.'
"'Who knows?' sighed the man at the next table, and I sprang to my
feet and wheeled about. But I only caught a glimpse of a pair of
frayed coat-tails and a bald head vanishing into the dining-room. I
sat down again, thoroughly indignant. A moment later the cat got up
and went away.
XXIII
"Daylight was fading in the city of Antwerp. Down into the sea sank
the sun, tinting the vast horizon with flakes of crimson, and touching
with rich deep undertones the tossing waters of the Scheldt. Its glow
fell like a rosy mantle over red-tiled roofs and meadows; and through
the haze the spires of twenty churches pierced the air like sharp,
gilded flames. To the west and south the green plains, over which the
Spanish armies tramped so long ago, stretched away until they met the
sky; the enchantment of the after-glow had turned old Antwerp into
fairy-land; and sea and sky and plain were beautiful and vague as the
night-mists floating in the moats below.
"Along the sea-wall from the Rubens Gate all Antwerp strolled, and
chattered, and flirted, and sipped their Flemish wines from slender
Flemish glasses, or gossiped over krugs of foaming beer.
"From the Scheldt came the cries of sailors, the creaking of cordage,
and the puff! puff! of the ferry-boats. On the bastions of the
fortress opposite, a bugler was standing. Twice the mellow notes of
the bugle came faintly over the water, then a great gun thundered from
the ramparts, and the Belgian flag fluttered along the lanyards to the
ground.
"I leaned listlessly on the sea-wall and looked down at the Scheldt
below. A battery of artillery was embarking for the fortress. The
tublike transport lay hissing and whistling in the slip, and the
stamping of horses, the rumbling of gun and caisson, and the sharp
cries of the officers came plainly to the ear.
"When the last caisson was aboard and stowed, and the last trooper had
sprung jingling to the deck, the transport puffed out into the
Scheldt, and I turned away through the throng of promenaders; and
found a little table on the terrace, just outside of the pretty café.
And as I sat down I became aware of a girl at the next table--a girl
all in white--the most ravishingly and distractingly pretty girl that
I had ever seen. In the agitation of the moment I forgot my name, my
fortune, my aunt, and the Crimson Diamond--all these I forgot in a
purely human impulse to see clearly; and to that end I removed my
monocle from my left eye. Some moments later I came to myself and
feebly replaced it. It was too late; the mischief was done. I was not
aware at first of the exact state of my feelings--for I had never been
in love more than three or four times in all my life--but I did know
that at her request I would have been proud to stand on my head, or
turn a flip-flap into the Scheldt.
"I did not stare at her, but I managed to see her most of the time
when her eyes were in another direction. I found myself drinking
something which a waiter brought, presumably upon an order which I did
not remember having given. Later I noticed that it was a loathsome
drink which the Belgians call 'American grog,' but I swallowed it and
lighted a cigarette. As the fragrant cloud rose in the air, a voice,
which I recognized with a chill, broke, into my dream of enchantment.
Could he have been there all the while--there sitting beside that
vision in white? His hat was off, and the ocean-breezes whispered
about his bald head. His frayed coat-tails were folded carefully over
his knees, and between the thumb and forefinger of his left hand he
balanced a bad cigar. He looked at me in a mildly cheerful way, and
said, 'I know now.'
"'Know what?' I asked, thinking it better to humor him, for I was
convinced that he was mad.
"'I know why cats bite.'
"This was startling. I hadn't an idea what to say.
"'I know why,' he repeated; 'can you guess why?' There was a covert
tone of triumph in his voice and he smiled encouragement. 'Come, try
and guess,' he urged.
"I told him that I was unequal to problems.
"'Listen, young man,' he continued, folding his coat-tails closely
about his legs--'try to reason it out: why should cats bite? Don't you
know? I do.'
"He looked at me anxiously.
"'You take no interest in this problem?' he demanded.
"'Oh yes.'
"'Then why do you not ask me why?' he said, looking vaguely
disappointed.
"'Well,' I said, in desperation, 'why do cats bite?--hang it all!' I
thought, 'it's like a burned-cork show, and I'm Mr. Bones and he's
Tambo!'
"Then he smiled gently. 'Young man,' he said, 'cats bite because they
feed on catnip. I have reasoned it out.'
"I stared at him in blank astonishment. Was this benevolent-looking
old party poking fun at me? Was he paying me up for the morning's
snub? Was he a malignant and revengeful old party, or was he merely
feeble-minded? Who might he be? What was he doing here in
Antwerp--what was he doing now?--for the bald one had turned
familiarly to the beautiful girl in white.
"'Wilhelmina,' he said, 'do you feel chilly?' The girl shook her head.
"'Not in the least, papa.'
"'Her father!' I thought--'her father!' Thank God she did not say
'popper'!
"'I have been to the Zoo to-day,' announced the bald one, turning
towards me.
"'Ah, indeed,' I observed; 'er--I trust you enjoyed it.'
"'I have been contemplating the apes,' he continued, dreamily. 'Yes,
contemplating the apes.'
"I tried to look interested.
"'Yes, the apes,' he murmured, fixing his mild eyes on me. Then he
leaned towards me confidentially and whispered, 'Can you tell me what
a monkey thinks?'
"'I cannot,' I replied, sharply.
"'Ah,' he sighed, sinking back in his chair, and patting the slender
hand of the girl beside him--'ah, who can tell what a monkey thinks?'
His gentle face lulled my suspicions, and I replied, very gravely:
"'Who can tell whether they think at all?'
"'True, true! Who can tell whether they think at all; and if they do
think, ah! who can tell what they think?'
"'But,' I began, 'if you can't tell whether they think at all, what's
the use of trying to conjecture what they would think if they did
think?'
"He raised his hand in deprecation. 'Ah, it is exactly that which is
of such absorbing interest--exactly that! It is the abstruseness of
the proposition which stimulates research--which stirs profoundly the
brain of the thinking world. The question is of vital and instant
importance. Possibly you have already formed an opinion.'
"I admitted that I had thought but little on the subject.
"'I doubt,' he continued, swathing his knees in his coat-tails--'I
doubt whether you have given much attention to the subject lately
discussed by the Boston Dodo Society of Pythagorean Research.'
"'I am not sure,' I said, politely, 'that I recall that particular
discussion. May I ask what was the question brought up?'
"'The Felis domestica question.'
"'Ah, that must indeed be interesting! And--er--what may be the Felis
do--do--'
"'Domestica--not dodo. Felis domestica, the common or garden cat.'
"'Indeed,' I murmured.
"'You are not listening,' he said.
"I only half heard him. I could not turn my eyes from his daughter's
face.
"'Cat!' shouted the bald one, and I almost leaped from my chair. 'Are
you deaf?' he inquired, sympathetically.
"'No--oh no!' I replied, coloring with confusion; 'you were--pardon
me--you were--er--speaking of the dodo. Extraordinary bird that--'
"'I was not discussing the dodo,' he sighed. 'I was speaking of cats.'
"'Of course,' I said.
"'The question is,' he continued, twisting his frayed coat-tails into
a sort of rope--'the question is, how are we to ameliorate the present
condition and social status of our domestic cats?'
"'Feed 'em,' I suggested.
"He raised both hands. They were eloquent with patient expostulation.
'I mean their spiritual condition,' he said.
"I nodded, but my eyes reverted to that exquisite face. She sat
silent, her eyes fixed on the waning flecks of color in the western
sky.
"'Yes,' repeated the bald one, 'the spiritual welfare of our domestic
cats.'
"'Toms and tabbies?' I murmured.
"'Exactly,' he said, tying a large knot in his coat-tails.
"'You will ruin your coat,' I observed.
"'Papa!' exclaimed the girl, turning in dismay, as that gentleman gave
a guilty start, 'stop it at once!'
"He smiled apologetically and made a feeble attempt to conceal his
coat-tails.
"'My dear,' he said, with gentle deprecation, 'I am so
absent-minded--I always do it in the heat of argument.'
"The girl rose, and, bending over her untidy parent, deftly untied the
knot in his flapping coat. When he was disentangled, she sat down and
said, with a ghost of a smile, 'He is so very absent-minded.'
"'Your father is evidently a great student,' I ventured, pleasantly.
How I pitied her, tied to this old lunatic!
"'Yes, he is a great student,' she said, quietly.
"'I am,' he murmured; 'that's what makes me so absent-minded. I often
go to bed and forget to sleep.' Then, looking at me, he asked me my
name, adding, with a bow, that his name was P. Royal Wyeth, Professor
of Pythagorean Research and Abstruse Paradox.
"'My first name is Penny--named after Professor Penny, of Harvard,' he
said; 'but I seldom use my first name in connection with my second, as
the combination suggests a household remedy of penetrating odor.'
"'My name is Kensett,' I said, 'Harold Kensett, of New York.'
"'Student?'
"'Er--a little.'
"'Student of diamonds?'
"I smiled. 'Oh, I see you know who my great-aunt was,' I said.
"'I know her,' he said.
"'Ah--perhaps you are unaware that my great-aunt is not now living.'
"'I know her,' he repeated, obstinately.
"I bowed. What a crank he was!
"'What do you study? You don't fiddle away all your time, do you?' he
asked.
"Now that was just what I did, but I was not pleased to have Miss
Wyeth know it. Although my time was chiefly spent in killing time, I
had once, in a fit of energy, succeeded in writing some verses 'To a
Tomtit,' so I evaded a humiliating confession by saying that I had
done a little work in ornithology.
"'Good!' cried the professor, beaming all over. 'I knew you were a
fellow-scientist. Possibly you are a brother-member of the Boston
Dodo Society of Pythagorean Research. Are you a dodo?'
"I shook my head. 'No, I am not a dodo.'
"'Only a jay?'
"'A--what?' I said, angrily.
"'A jay. We call the members of the Junior Ornithological Jay Society
of New York, jays, just as we refer to ourselves as dodos. Are you not
even a jay?'
"'I am not,' I said, watching him suspiciously.
"'I must convert you, I see,' said the professor, smiling.
"'I'm afraid I do not approve of Pythagorean research,' I began, but
the beautiful Miss Wyeth turned to me very seriously, and, looking me
frankly in the eyes, said:
"'I trust you will be open to conviction.'
"'Good Lord!' I thought. 'Can she be another lunatic?' I looked at her
steadily. What a little beauty she was! She also, then, belonged to
the Pythagoreans--a sect I despised. Everybody knows all about the
Pythagorean craze, its rise in Boston, its rapid spread, and its
subsequent consolidation with mental and Christian science, theosophy,
hypnotism, the Salvation Army, the Shakers, the Dunkards, and the
mind-cure cult, upon a business basis. I had hitherto regarded all
Pythagoreans with the same scornful indifference which I accorded to
the faith-curists; being a member of no particular church, I was
scarcely prepared to take any of them seriously. Least of all did I
approve of the 'business basis,' and I looked very much askance indeed
at the 'Scientific and Religious Trust Company,' duly incorporated and
generally known as the Pythagorean Trust, which, consolidating with
mind-curists, faith-curists, and other flourishing salvation
syndicates, actually claimed a place among ordinary trusts, and at the
same time pretended to a control over man's future life. No, I could
never listen--I was ashamed of even entertaining the notion, and I
shook my head.
"'No, Miss Wyeth, I am afraid I do not care to listen to any reasoning
on this subject.'
"'Don't you believe in Pythagoras?' demanded the professor, subduing
his excitement with difficulty, and adding another knot to his
coat-tails.
"'No,' I said, 'I do not.'
"'How do you know you don't?' inquired the professor.
"'Because,' I said, firmly, 'it is nonsense to say that the soul of a
human being can inhabit a hen!'
"'Put it in a more simplified form!' insisted the professor. 'Do you
believe that the soul of a hen can inhabit a human being?'
"'No, I don't!'
"'Did you ever hear of a hen-pecked man?' cried the professor, his
voice ending in a shout.
"I nodded, intensely annoyed.
"'Will you listen to reason, then?' he continued, eagerly.
"'No,' I began, but I caught Miss Wyeth's blue eyes fixed on mine with
an expression so sad, so sweetly appealing, that I faltered.
"'Yes, I will listen,' I said, faintly.
"'Will you become my pupil?' insisted the professor.
"I was shocked to find myself wavering, but my eyes were looking into
hers, and I could not disobey what I read there. The longer I looked
the greater inclination I felt to waver. I saw that I was going to
give in, and, strangest of all, my conscience did not trouble me. I
felt it coming--a sort of mild exhilaration took possession of me. For
the first time in my life I became reckless--I even gloried in my
recklessness.
"'Yes, yes,' I cried, leaning eagerly across the table, 'I shall be
glad--delighted! Will you take me as your pupil?' My single eye-glass
fell from its position unheeded. 'Take me! Oh, will you take me?' I
cried. Instead of answering, the professor blinked rapidly at me for a
moment. I imagined his eyes had grown bigger, and were assuming a
greenish tinge. The corners of his mouth began to quiver, emitting
queer, caressing little noises, and he rapidly added knot after knot
to his twitching coat-tails. Suddenly he bent forward across the table
until his nose almost touched mine. The pupils of his eyes expanded,
the iris assuming a beautiful, changing, golden-green tinge, and his
coat-tails switched violently. Then he began to mew.
"I strove to rouse myself from my paralysis--I tried to shrink back,
for I felt the end of his cold nose touch mine. I could not move. The
cry of terror died in my straining throat, my hands tightened
convulsively; I was incapable of speech or motion. At the same time my
brain became wonderfully clear. I began to remember everything that
had ever happened to me--everything that I had ever done or said. I
even remembered things that I had neither done nor said; I recalled
distinctly much that had never happened. How fresh and strong my
memory! The past was like a mirror, crystal clear, and there, in
glorious tints and hues, the scenes of my childhood grew and glowed
and faded, and gave place to newer and more splendid scenes. For a
moment the episode of the cat at the Hôtel St. Antoine flashed across
my mind. When it vanished a chilly stupor slowly clouded my brain; the
scenes, the memories, the brilliant colors, faded, leaving me
enveloped in a gray vapor, through which the two great eyes of the
professor twinkled with a murky light. A peculiar longing stirred
me--a strange yearning for something, I knew not what--but, oh! how I
longed and yearned for it! Slowly this indefinite, incomprehensible
longing became a living pain. Ah, how I suffered, and how the vapors
seemed to crowd around me! Then, as at a great distance, I heard her
voice, sweet, imperative:
"'Mew!' she said.
"For a moment I seemed to see the interior of my own skull, lighted as
by a flash of fire; the rolling eyeballs, veined in scarlet, the
glistening muscles quivering along the jaw, the humid masses of the
convoluted brain; then awful darkness--a darkness almost tangible--an
utter blackness, through which now seemed to creep a thin, silver
thread, like a river crawling across a world--like a thought gliding
to the brain--like a song, a thin, sharp song which some distant voice
was singing--which I was singing.
"And I knew that I was mewing!
"I threw myself back in my chair and mewed with all my heart. Oh, that
heavy load which was lifted from my breast! How good, how satisfying
it was to mew! And how I did miaul and yowl!
"I gave myself up to it, heart and soul; my whole being thrilled with
the passionate outpourings of a spirit freed. My voice trembled in the
upper bars of a feline love-song, quavered, descended, swelling again
into an intimation that I brooked no rival, and ended with a
magnificent crescendo.
"I finished, somewhat abashed, and glanced askance at the professor
and his daughter, but the one sat nonchalantly disentangling his
coat-tails, and the other was apparently absorbed in the distant
landscape. Evidently they did not consider me ridiculous. Flushing
painfully, I turned in my chair to see how my grewsome solo had
affected the people on the terrace. Nobody even looked at me. This,
however, gave me little comfort, for, as I began to realize what I had
done, my mortification and rage knew no bounds. I was ready to die of
shame. What on earth had induced me to mew? I looked wildly about for
escape--I would leap up--rush home to bury my burning face in my
pillows, and, later, in the friendly cabin of a homeward-bound
steamer. I would fly--fly at once! Woe to the man who blocked my way!
I started to my feet, but at that moment I caught Miss Wyeth's eyes
fixed on mine.
"'Don't go,' she said.
"What in Heaven's name lay in those blue eyes? I slowly sank back into
my chair.
"Then the professor spoke: 'Wilhelmina, I have just received a
despatch.'
"'Where from, papa?'
"'From India. I'm going at once.'
"She nodded her head, without turning her eyes from the sea. 'Is it
important, papa?'
"'I should say so. The cashier of the local trust has compromised an
astral body, and has squandered on her all our funds, including a lot
of first mortgages on Nirvana. I suppose he's been dabbling in futures
and is short in his accounts. I sha'n't be gone long.'
"'Then, good-night, papa,' she said, kissing him; 'try to be back by
eleven.' I sat stupidly staring at them.
"'Oh, it's only to Bombay--I sha'n't go to Thibet
to-night--good-night, my dear,' said the professor.
"Then a singular thing occurred. The professor had at last succeeded
in disentangling his coat-tails, and now, jamming his hat over his
ears, and waving his arms with a batlike motion, he climbed upon the
seat of his chair and ejaculated the word 'Presto!' Then I found my
voice.
"'Stop him!' I cried, in terror.
"'Presto! Presto!' shouted the professor, balancing himself on the
edge of his chair and waving his arms majestically, as if preparing
for a sudden flight across the Scheldt; and, firmly convinced that he
not only meditated it, but was perfectly capable of attempting it, I
covered my eyes with my hands.
"'Are you ill, Mr. Kensett?' asked the girl, quietly.
"I raised my head indignantly. 'Not at all, Miss Wyeth, only I'll bid
you good-evening, for this is the nineteenth century, and I'm a
Christian.'
"'So am I,' she said. 'So is my father.'
"'The devil he is,' I thought.
"Her next words made me jump.
"'Please do not be profane, Mr. Kensett.'
"How did she know I was profane? I had not spoken a word! Could it be
possible she was able to read my thoughts? This was too much, and I
rose.
"'I have the honor to bid you good-evening,' I began, and reluctantly
turned to include the professor, expecting to see that gentleman
balancing himself on his chair. The professor's chair was empty.
"'Oh,' said the girl, smiling, 'my father has gone.'
"'Gone! Where?'
"'To--to India, I believe.'
"I sank helplessly into my own chair.
"'I do not think he will stay very long--he promised to return by
eleven,' she said, timidly.
"I tried to realize the purport of it all. 'Gone to India? Gone! How?
On a broomstick? Good Heavens,' I murmured, 'am I insane?'
"'Perfectly,' she said, 'and I am tired; you may take me back to the
hotel.'
"I scarcely heard her; I was feebly attempting to gather up my numbed
wits. Slowly I began to comprehend the situation, to review the
startling and humiliating events of the day. At noon, in the court of
the Hôtel St. Antoine, I had been annoyed by a man and a cat. I had
retired to my own room and had slept until dinner. In the evening I
met two tourists on the sea-wall promenade. I had been beguiled into
conversation--yes, into intimacy with these two tourists! I had had
the intention of embracing the faith of Pythagoras! Then I had mewed
like a cat with all the strength of my lungs. Now the male tourist
vanishes--and leaves me in charge of the female tourist, alone and at
night in a strange city! And now the female tourist proposes that I
take her home!
"With a remnant of self-possession I groped for my eye-glass, seized
it, screwed it firmly into my eye, and looked long and earnestly at
the girl. As I looked, my eyes softened, my monacle dropped, and I
forgot everything in the beauty and purity of the face before me. My
heart began to beat against my stiff, white waistcoat. Had I
dared--yes, dared to think of this wondrous little beauty as a female
tourist? Her pale, sweet face, turned towards the sea, seemed to cast
a spell upon the night. How loud my heart was beating! The yellow moon
floated, half dipping in the sea, flooding land and water with
enchanted lights. Wind and wave seemed to feel the spell of her eyes,
for the breeze died away, the heaving Scheldt tossed noiselessly, and
the dark Dutch luggers swung idly on the tide with every sail adroop.
"A sudden hush fell over land and water, the voices on the promenade
were stilled; little by little the shadowy throng, the terrace, the
sea itself vanished, and I only saw her face, shadowed against the
moon.
"It seemed as if I had drifted miles above the earth, through all
space and eternity, and there was naught between me and high heaven
but that white face. Ah, how I loved her! I knew it--I never doubted
it. Could years of passionate adoration touch her heart--her little
heart, now beating so calmly with no thought of love to startle it
from its quiet and send it fluttering against the gentle breast? In
her lap her clasped hands tightened--her eyelids drooped as though
some pleasant thought was passing. I saw the color dye her temples, I
saw the blue eyes turn, half frightened, to my own, I saw--and I knew
she had read my thoughts. Then we both rose, side by side, and she was
weeping softly, yet for my life I dared not speak. She turned away,
touching her eyes with a bit of lace, and I sprang to her side and
offered her my arm.
"'You cannot go back alone,' I said.
"She did not take my arm.
"'Do you hate me, Miss Wyeth?'
"'I am very tired,' she said; 'I must go home.'
"'You cannot go alone.'
"'I do not care to accept your escort.'
"'Then--you send me away?'
"'No,' she said, in a hard voice. 'You can come if you like.' So I
humbly attended her to the Hôtel St. Antoine.
XXIV
"As we reached the Place Verte and turned into the court of the hotel,
the sound of the midnight bells swept over the city, and a horse-car
jingled slowly by on its last trip to the railroad station.
"We passed the fountain, bubbling and splashing in the moonlit court,
and, crossing the square, entered the southern wing of the hotel. At
the foot of the stairway she leaned for an instant against the
banisters.
"'I am afraid we have walked too fast,' I said.
"She turned to me coldly. 'No--conventionalities must be observed. You
were quite right in escaping as soon as possible.'
"'But,' I protested, 'I assure you--'
"She gave a little movement of impatience. 'Don't,' she said, 'you
tire me--conventionalities tire me. Be satisfied--nobody has seen
you.'
"'You are cruel,' I said, in a low voice--'what do you think I care
for conventionalities?'
"'You care everything--you care what people think, and you try to do
what they say is good form. You never did such an original thing in
your life as you have just done.'
"'You read my thoughts,' I exclaimed, bitterly. 'It is not fair--'
"'Fair or not, I know what you consider me--ill-bred, common, pleased
with any sort of attention. Oh! why should I waste one word--one
thought on you?'
"'Miss Wyeth--' I began, but she interrupted me.
"'Would you dare tell me what you think of me?--Would you dare tell me
what you think of my father?'
"I was silent. She turned and mounted two steps of the stairway, then
faced me again.
"'Do you think it was for my own pleasure that I permitted myself to
be left alone with you? Do you imagine that I am flattered by your
attention?--do you venture to think I ever could be? How dared you
think what you did think there on the sea-wall?'
"'I cannot help my thoughts!' I replied.
"'You turned on me like a tiger when you awoke from your trance. Do
you really suppose that you mewed? Are you not aware that my father
hypnotized you?'
"'No--I did not know it,' I said. The hot blood tingled in my
finger-tips, and I looked angrily at her.
"'Why do you imagine that I waste my time on you?' she said. 'Your
vanity has answered that question--now let your intelligence answer
it. I am a Pythagorean; I have been chosen to bring in a convert, and
you were the convert selected for me by the Mahatmas of the
Consolidated Trust Company. I have followed you from New York to
Antwerp, as I was bidden, but now my courage fails, and I shrink from
fulfilling my mission, knowing you to be the type of man you are. If I
could give it up--if I could only go away--never, never again to see
you! Ah, I fear they will not permit it!--until my mission is
accomplished. Why was I chosen--I, with a woman's heart and a woman's
pride. I--I hate you!'
"'I love you,' I said, slowly.
"She paled and looked away.
"'Answer me,' I said.
"Her wide, blue eyes turned back again, and I held them with mine. At
last she slowly drew a long-stemmed rose from the bunch at her belt,
turned, and mounted the shadowy staircase. For a moment I thought I
saw her pause on the landing above, but the moonlight was uncertain.
After waiting for a long time in vain, I moved away, and in going
raised my hand to my face, but I stopped short, and my heart stopped
too, for a moment. In my hand I held a long-stemmed rose.
"With my brain in a whirl I crept across the court and mounted the
stairs to my room. Hour after hour I walked the floor, slowly at
first, then more rapidly, but it brought no calm to the fierce tumult
of my thoughts, and at last I dropped into a chair before the empty
fireplace, burying my head in my hands.
"Uncertain, shocked, and deadly weary, I tried to think--I strove to
bring order out of the chaos in my brain, but I only sat staring at
the long-stemmed rose. Slowly I began to take a vague pleasure in its
heavy perfume, and once I crushed a leaf between my palms, and,
bending over, drank in the fragrance.
"Twice my lamp flickered and went out, and twice, treading softly, I
crossed the room to relight it. Twice I threw open the door, thinking
that I heard some sound without. How close the air was!--how heavy and
hot! And what was that strange, subtle odor which had insensibly
filled the room? It grew stronger and more penetrating, and I began
to dislike it, and to escape it I buried my nose in the half-opened
rose. Horror! The odor came from the rose--and the rose itself was no
longer a rose--not even a flower now--it was only a bunch of catnip;
and I dashed it to the floor and ground it under my heel.
"'Mountebank!' I cried, in a rage. My anger grew cold--and I shivered,
drawn perforce to the curtained window. Something was there, outside.
I could not hear it, for it made no sound, but I knew it was there,
watching me. What was it? The damp hair stirred on my head. I touched
the heavy curtains. Whatever was outside them sprang up, tore at the
window, and then rushed away.
"Feeling very shaky, I crept to the window, opened it, and leaned out.
The night was calm. I heard the fountain splashing in the moonlight
and the sea-winds soughing through the palms. Then I closed the window
and turned back into the room; and as I stood there a sudden breeze,
which could not have come from without, blew sharply in my face,
extinguishing the candle and sending the long curtains bellying out
into the room. The lamp on the table flashed and smoked and sputtered;
the room was littered with flying papers and catnip leaves. Then the
strange wind died away, and somewhere in the night a cat snarled.
"I turned desperately to my trunk and flung it open. Into it I threw
everything I owned, pell-mell, closed the lid, locked it, and, seizing
my mackintosh and travelling-bag, ran down the stairs, crossed the
court, and entered the night-office of the hotel. There I called up
the sleepy clerk, settled my reckoning, and sent a porter for a cab.
"'Now,' I said, 'what time does the next train leave?'
"'The next train for where?'
"'Anywhere!'
"The clerk locked the safe, and, carefully keeping the desk between
himself and me, motioned the office-boy to look at the time-tables.
"'Next train, 2.10. Brussels--Paris,' read the boy.
"At that moment the cab rattled up by the curbstone, and I sprang in
while the porter tossed my traps on top. Away we bumped over the stony
pavement, past street after street lighted dimly by tall gas-lamps,
and alley after alley brilliant with the glare of villanous all-night
café-concerts, and then, turning, we rumbled past the Circus and the
Eldorado, and at last stopped with a jolt before the Brussels station.
"I had not a moment to lose. 'Paris!' I cried--'first-class!' and,
pocketing the book of coupons, hurried across the platform to where
the Brussels train lay. A guard came running up, flung open the door
of a first-class carriage, slammed and locked it after I had jumped
in, and the long train glided from the arched station out into the
starlit morning.
"I was all alone in the compartment. The wretched lamp in the roof
flickered dimly, scarcely lighting the stuffy box. I could not see to
read my time-table, so I wrapped my legs in the travelling-rug and lay
back, staring out into the misty morning. Trees, walls,
telegraph-poles flashed past, and the cinders drove in showers against
the rattling windows. I slept at times, fitfully, and once, springing
up, peered sharply at the opposite seat, possessed with the idea that
somebody was there.
"When the train reached Brussels I was sound asleep, and the guard
awoke me with difficulty.
"'Breakfast, sir?' he asked.
"'Anything,' I sighed, and stepped out to the platform, rubbing my
legs and shivering. The other passengers were already breakfasting in
the station café, and I joined them and managed to swallow a cup of
coffee and a roll.
"The morning broke gray and cloudy, and I bundled myself into my
mackintosh for a tramp along the platform. Up and down I stamped,
puffing a cigar, and digging my hands deep in my pockets, while the
other passengers huddled into the warmer compartments of the train or
stood watching the luggage being lifted into the forward
mail-carriage. The wait was very long; the hands of the great clock
pointed to six, and still the train lay motionless along the platform.
I approached a guard and asked him whether anything was wrong.
"'Accident on the line,' he replied; 'monsieur had better go to his
compartment and try to sleep, for we may be delayed until noon.'
"I followed the guard's advice, and, crawling into my corner, wrapped
myself in the rug and lay back watching the rain-drops spattering
along the window-sill. At noon the train had not moved, and I lunched
in the compartment. At four o'clock in the afternoon the
station-master came hurrying along the platform, crying, 'Montez!
montez! messieurs, s'il vous plaît'--and the train steamed out of the
station and whirled away through the flat, treeless Belgian plains. At
times I dozed, but the shaking of the car always awoke me, and I would
sit blinking out at the endless stretch of plain, until a sudden
flurry of rain blotted the landscape from my eyes. At last a long,
shrill whistle from the engine, a jolt, a series of bumps, and an
apparition of red trousers and bayonets warned me that we had arrived
at the French frontier. I turned out with the others, and opened my
valise for inspection, but the customs officials merely chalked it,
without examination, and I hurried back to my compartment amid the
shouting of guards and the clanging of station bells. Again I found
that I was alone in the compartment, so I smoked a cigarette, thanked
Heaven, and fell into a dreamless sleep.
"How long I slept I do not know, but when I awoke the train was
