survives in that smashed evidence and at the even more remarkable
appearance that I’m not such a fool as you supposed me. Look at the
possibility that, since I AM different, there may still be something
in it for you--if you’re capable of working with me to get that out.
Consider of course, as you must, the question of what you may have to
surrender, on your side, what price you may have to pay, whom you may
have to pay WITH, to set this advantage free; but take in, at any rate,
that there is something for you if you don’t too blindly spoil your
chance for it.” He went no nearer the damnatory pieces, but he eyed
them, from where he stood, with a degree of recognition just visibly
less to be dissimulated; all of which represented for her a certain
traceable process. And her uttered words, meanwhile, were different
enough from those he might have inserted between the lines of her
already-spoken. “It’s the golden bowl, you know, that you saw at the
little antiquario’s in Bloomsbury, so long ago--when you went there with
Charlotte, when you spent those hours with her, unknown to me, a day or
two before our marriage. It was shown you both, but you didn’t take
it; you left it for me, and I came upon it, extraordinarily, through
happening to go into the same shop on Monday last; in walking home, in
prowling about to pick up some small old thing for father’s birthday,
after my visit to the Museum, my appointment there with Mr. Crichton,
of which I told you. It was shown me, and I was struck with it and took
it--knowing nothing about it at the time. What I now know I’ve learned
since--I learned this afternoon, a couple of hours ago; receiving from
it naturally a great impression. So there it is--in its three pieces.
You can handle them--don’t be afraid--if you want to make sure the thing
is the thing you and Charlotte saw together. Its having come apart makes
an unfortunate difference for its beauty, its artistic value, but none
for anything else. Its other value is just the same--I mean that of its
having given me so much of the truth about you. I don’t therefore so
much care what becomes of it now--unless perhaps you may yourself, when
you come to think, have some good use for it. In that case,” Maggie
wound up, “we can easily take the pieces with us to Fawns.”
It was wonderful how she felt, by the time she had seen herself through
this narrow pass, that she had really achieved something--that she was
emerging a little, in fine, with the prospect less contracted. She had
done for him, that is, what her instinct enjoined; had laid a basis not
merely momentary on which he could meet her. When, by the turn of his
head, he did finally meet her, this was the last thing that glimmered
out of his look; but it came into sight, none the less, as a perception
of his distress and almost as a question of his eyes; so that, for still
another minute, before he committed himself, there occurred between them
a kind of unprecedented moral exchange over which her superior lucidity
presided. It was not, however, that when he did commit himself the show
was promptly portentous. “But what in the world has Fanny Assingham had
to do with it?”
She could verily, out of all her smothered soreness, almost have smiled:
his question so affected her as giving the whole thing up to her. But
it left her only to go the straighter. “She has had to do with it that
I immediately sent for her and that she immediately came. She was the
first person I wanted to see--because I knew she would know. Know more
about what I had learned, I mean, than I could make out for myself. I
made out as much as I could for myself--that I also wanted to have done;
but it didn’t, in spite of everything, take me very far, and she has
really been a help. Not so much as she would like to be--not so much as,
poor dear, she just now tried to be; yet she has done her very best for
you--never forget that!--and has kept me along immeasurably better than
I should have been able to come without her. She has gained me time; and
that, these three months, don’t you see? has been everything.”
She had said “Don’t you see?” on purpose, and was to feel the next
moment that it had acted. “These three months’?” the Prince asked.
“Counting from the night you came home so late from Matcham. Counting
from the hours you spent with Charlotte at Gloucester; your visit to the
cathedral--which you won’t have forgotten describing to me in so much
detail. For that was the beginning of my being sure. Before it I had
been sufficiently in doubt. Sure,” Maggie developed, “of your having,
and of your having for a long time had, TWO relations with Charlotte.”
He stared, a little at sea, as he took it up. “Two--?”
Something in the tone of it gave it a sense, or an ambiguity, almost
foolish--leaving Maggie to feel, as in a flash, how such a consequence,
a foredoomed infelicity, partaking of the ridiculous even in one of the
cleverest, might be of the very essence of the penalty of wrong-doing.
“Oh, you may have had fifty--had the same relation with her fifty times!
It’s of the number of KINDS of relation with her that I speak--a number
that doesn’t matter, really, so long as there wasn’t only one kind, as
father and I supposed. One kind,” she went on, “was there before us;
we took that fully for granted, as you saw, and accepted it. We never
thought of there being another, kept out of our sight. But after the
evening I speak of I knew there was something else. As I say, I had,
before that, my idea--which you never dreamed I had. From the moment I
speak of it had more to go upon, and you became yourselves, you and
she, vaguely, yet uneasily, conscious of the difference. But it’s within
these last hours that I’ve most seen where we are; and as I’ve been in
communication with Fanny Assingham about my doubts, so I wanted to let
her know my certainty--with the determination of which, however, you
must understand, she has had nothing to do. She defends you,” Maggie
remarked.
He had given her all his attention, and with this impression for
her, again, that he was, in essence, fairly reaching out to her for
time--time, only time--she could sufficiently imagine, and to whatever
strangeness, that he absolutely liked her to talk, even at the cost of
his losing almost everything else by it. It was still, for a minute, as
if he waited for something worse; wanted everything that was in her to
come out, any definite fact, anything more precisely nameable, so that
he too--as was his right--should know where he was. What stirred in him
above all, while he followed in her face the clear train of her speech,
must have been the impulse to take up something she put before him that
he was yet afraid directly to touch. He wanted to make free with it, but
had to keep his hands off--for reasons he had already made out; and
the discomfort of his privation yearned at her out of his eyes with an
announcing gleam of the fever, the none too tolerable chill, of specific
recognition. She affected him as speaking more or less for her father as
well, and his eyes might have been trying to hypnotise her into giving
him the answer without his asking the question. “Had HE his idea, and
has he now, with you, anything more?”--those were the words he had to
hold himself from not speaking and that she would as yet, certainly,
do nothing to make easy. She felt with her sharpest thrill how he was
straitened and tied, and with the miserable pity of it her present
conscious purpose of keeping him so could none the less perfectly
accord. To name her father, on any such basis of anxiety, of
compunction, would be to do the impossible thing, to do neither more nor
less than give Charlotte away. Visibly, palpably, traceably, he stood
off from this, moved back from it as from an open chasm now suddenly
perceived, but which had been, between the two, with so much, so
strangely much else, quite uncalculated. Verily it towered before
her, this history of their confidence. They had built strong and piled
high--based as it was on such appearances--their conviction that, thanks
to her native complacencies of so many sorts, she would always, quite to
the end and through and through, take them as nobly sparing her. Amerigo
was at any rate having the sensation of a particular ugliness to avoid,
a particular difficulty to count with, that practically found him as
unprepared as if he had been, like his wife, an abjectly simple person.
And she meanwhile, however abjectly simple, was further discerning, for
herself, that, whatever he might have to take from her--she being, on
her side, beautifully free--he would absolutely not be able, for any
qualifying purpose, to name Charlotte either. As his father-in-law’s
wife Mrs. Verver rose between them there, for the time, in august and
prohibitive form; to protect her, defend her, explain about her, was,
at the least, to bring her into the question--which would be by the
same stroke to bring her husband. But this was exactly the door Maggie
wouldn’t open to him; on all of which she was the next moment asking
herself if, thus warned and embarrassed, he were not fairly writhing in
his pain. He writhed, on that hypothesis, some seconds more, for it was
not till then that he had chosen between what he could do and what he
couldn’t.
“You’re apparently drawing immense conclusions from very small
matters. Won’t you perhaps feel, in fairness, that you’re striking out,
triumphing, or whatever I may call it, rather too easily--feel it when
I perfectly admit that your smashed cup there does come back to me? I
frankly confess, now, to the occasion, and to having wished not to
speak of it to you at the time. We took two or three hours together, by
arrangement; it WAS on the eve of my marriage--at the moment you say.
But that put it on the eve of yours too, my dear--which was directly the
point. It was desired to find for you, at the eleventh hour, some
small wedding-present--a hunt, for something worth giving you, and yet
possible from other points of view as well, in which it seemed I could
be of use. You were naturally not to be told--precisely because it was
all FOR you. We went forth together and we looked; we rummaged about
and, as I remember we called it, we prowled; then it was that, as I
freely recognise, we came across that crystal cup--which I’m bound to
say, upon my honour, I think it rather a pity Fanny Assingham, from
whatever good motive, should have treated so.” He had kept his hands in
his pockets; he turned his eyes again, but more complacently now, to the
ruins of the precious vessel; and Maggie could feel him exhale into the
achieved quietness of his explanation a long, deep breath of comparative
relief. Behind everything, beneath everything, it was somehow a comfort
to him at last to be talking with her--and he seemed to be proving to
himself that he COULD talk. “It was at a little shop in Bloomsbury--I
think I could go to the place now. The man understood Italian, I
remember; he wanted awfully to work off his bowl. But I didn’t believe
in it, and we didn’t take it.”
Maggie had listened with an interest that wore all the expression of
candour. “Oh, you left it for me. But what did you take?”
He looked at her; first as if he were trying to remember, then as if he
might have been trying to forget. “Nothing, I think--at that place.”
“What did you take then at any other? What did you get me--since that
was your aim and end--for a wedding-gift?”
The Prince continued very nobly to bethink himself. “Didn’t we get you
anything?”
Maggie waited a little; she had for some time, now, kept her eyes on him
steadily; but they wandered, at this, to the fragments on her chimney.
“Yes; it comes round, after all, to your having got me the bowl. I
myself was to come upon it, the other day, by so wonderful a chance; was
to find it in the same place and to have it pressed upon me by the same
little man, who does, as you say, understand Italian. I did ‘believe in
it,’ you see--must have believed in it somehow instinctively; for I took
it as soon as I saw it. Though I didn’t know at all then,” she added,
“what I was taking WITH it.”
The Prince paid her for an instant, visibly, the deference of trying
to imagine what this might have been. “I agree with you that the
coincidence is extraordinary--the sort of thing that happens mainly in
novels and plays. But I don’t see, you must let me say, the importance
or the connexion--”
“Of my having made the purchase where you failed of it?” She had quickly
taken him up; but she had, with her eyes on him once more, another drop
into the order of her thoughts, to which, through whatever he might say,
she was still adhering. “It’s not my having gone into the place, at the
end of four years, that makes the strangeness of the coincidence; for
don’t such chances as that, in London, easily occur? The strangeness,”
 she lucidly said, “is in what my purchase was to represent to me after
I had got it home; which value came,” she explained, “from the wonder of
my having found such a friend.”
“‘Such a friend’?” As a wonder, assuredly, her husband could but take
it.
“As the little man in the shop. He did for me more than he knew--I owe
it to him. He took an interest in me,” Maggie said; “and, taking that
interest, he recalled your visit, he remembered you and spoke of you to
me.”
On which the Prince passed the comment of a sceptical smile. “Ah but, my
dear, if extraordinary things come from people’s taking an interest in
you--”
“My life in that case,” she asked, “must be very agitated? Well, he
liked me, I mean--very particularly. It’s only so I can account for my
afterwards hearing from him--and in fact he gave me that to-day,” she
pursued, “he gave me it frankly as his reason.”
“To-day?” the Prince inquiringly echoed.
But she was singularly able--it had been marvellously “given” her, she
afterwards said to herself--to abide, for her light, for her clue, by
her own order.
“I inspired him with sympathy--there you are! But the miracle is that
he should have a sympathy to offer that could be of use to me. That was
really the oddity of my chance,” the Princess proceeded--“that I should
have been moved, in my ignorance, to go precisely to him.”
He saw her so keep her course that it was as if he could, at the best,
but stand aside to watch her and let her pass; he only made a vague
demonstration that was like an ineffective gesture. “I’m sorry to say
any ill of your friends, and the thing was a long time ago; besides
which there was nothing to make me recur to it. But I remember the man’s
striking me as a decided little beast.”
She gave a slow headshake--as if, no, after consideration, not THAT way
were an issue. “I can only think of him as kind, for he had nothing to
gain. He had in fact only to lose. It was what he came to tell me--that
he had asked me too high a price, more than the object was really worth.
There was a particular reason, which he hadn’t mentioned, and which had
made him consider and repent. He wrote for leave to see me again--wrote
in such terms that I saw him here this afternoon.”
“Here?”--it made the Prince look about him.
“Downstairs--in the little red room. While he was waiting he looked at
the few photographs that stand about there and recognised two of them.
Though it was so long ago, he remembered the visit made him by the lady
and the gentleman, and that gave him his connexion. It gave me mine,
for he remembered everything and told me everything. You see you too had
produced your effect; only, unlike you, he had thought of it again--he
HAD recurred to it. He told me of your having wished to make each other
presents--but of that’s not having come off. The lady was greatly taken
with the piece I had bought of him, but you had your reason against
receiving it from her, and you had been right. He would think that of
you more than ever now,” Maggie went on; “he would see how wisely you
had guessed the flaw and how easily the bowl could be broken. I had
bought it myself, you see, for a present--he knew I was doing that. This
was what had worked in him--especially after the price I had paid.”
Her story had dropped an instant; she still brought it out in small
waves of energy, each of which spent its force; so that he had an
opportunity to speak before this force was renewed. But the quaint thing
was what he now said. “And what, pray, WAS the price?”
She paused again a little. “It was high, certainly--for those fragments.
I think I feel, as I look at them there, rather ashamed to say.”
The Prince then again looked at them; he might have been growing used to
the sight. “But shall you at least get your money back?”
“Oh, I’m far from wanting it back--I feel so that I’m getting its
worth.” With which, before he could reply, she had a quick transition.
“The great fact about the day we’re talking of seems to me to have been,
quite remarkably, that no present was then made me. If your undertaking
had been for that, that was not at least what came of it.”
“You received then nothing at all?” The Prince looked vague and grave,
almost retrospectively concerned.
“Nothing but an apology for empty hands and empty pockets; which was
made me--as if it mattered a mite!--ever so frankly, ever so beautifully
and touchingly.”
This Amerigo heard with interest, yet not with confusion. “Ah, of course
you couldn’t have minded!” Distinctly, as she went on, he was getting
the better of the mere awkwardness of his arrest; quite as if making out
that he need SUFFER arrest from her now--before they should go forth
to show themselves in the world together--in no greater quantity than
an occasion ill-chosen at the best for a scene might decently make room
for. He looked at his watch; their engagement, all the while, remained
before him. “But I don’t make out, you see, what case against me you
rest--”
“On everything I’m telling you? Why, the whole case--the case of your
having for so long so successfully deceived me. The idea of your finding
something for me--charming as that would have been--was what had least
to do with your taking a morning together at that moment. What had
really to do with it,” said Maggie, “was that you had to: you couldn’t
not, from the moment you were again face to face. And the reason of
that was that there had been so much between you before--before I came
between you at all.”
Her husband had been for these last moments moving about under her eyes;
but at this, as to check any show of impatience, he again stood still.
“You’ve never been more sacred to me than you were at that hour--unless
perhaps you’ve become so at this one.”
The assurance of his speech, she could note, quite held up its head in
him; his eyes met her own so, for the declaration, that it was as if
something cold and momentarily unimaginable breathed upon her, from
afar off, out of his strange consistency. She kept her direction still,
however, under that. “Oh, the thing I’ve known best of all is that
you’ve never wanted, together, to offend us. You’ve wanted quite
intensely not to, and the precautions you’ve had to take for it have
been for a long time one of the strongest of my impressions. That, I
think,” she added, “is the way I’ve best known.”
“Known?” he repeated after a moment.
“Known. Known that you were older friends, and so much more intimate
ones, than I had any reason to suppose when we married. Known there were
things that hadn’t been told me--and that gave their meaning, little by
little, to other things that were before me.”
“Would they have made a difference, in the matter of our marriage,” the
Prince presently asked, “if you HAD known them?”
She took her time to think. “I grant you not--in the matter of OURS.”
 And then as he again fixed her with his hard yearning, which he couldn’t
keep down: “The question is so much bigger than that. You see how
much what I know makes of it for me.” That was what acted on him, this
iteration of her knowledge, into the question of the validity, of the
various bearings of which, he couldn’t on the spot trust himself
to pretend, in any high way, to go. What her claim, as she made it,
represented for him--that he couldn’t help betraying, if only as a
consequence of the effect of the word itself, her repeated distinct
“know, know,” on his nerves. She was capable of being sorry for his
nerves at a time when he should need them for dining out, pompously,
rather responsibly, without his heart in it; yet she was not to let that
prevent her using, with all economy, so precious a chance for supreme
clearness. “I didn’t force this upon you, you must recollect, and it
probably wouldn’t have happened for you if you hadn’t come in.”
“Ah,” said the Prince, “I was liable to come in, you know.”
“I didn’t think you were this evening.”
“And why not?”
“Well,” she answered, “you have many liabilities--of different sorts.”
 With which she recalled what she had said to Fanny Assingham. “And then
you’re so deep.”
It produced in his features, in spite of his control of them, one of
those quick plays of expression, the shade of a grimace, that testified
as nothing else did to his race. “It’s you, cara, who are deep.”
Which, after an instant, she had accepted from him; she could so feel at
last that it was true. “Then I shall have need of it all.”
“But what would you have done,” he was by this time asking, “if I HADN’T
come in?”
“I don’t know.” She had hesitated. “What would you?”
“Oh; I oh--that isn’t the question. I depend upon you. I go on. You would
have spoken to-morrow?”
“I think I would have waited.”
“And for what?” he asked.
“To see what difference it would make for myself. My possession at last,
I mean, of real knowledge.”
“Oh!” said the Prince.
“My only point now, at any rate,” she went on, “is the difference, as I
say, that it may make for YOU. Your knowing was--from the moment you did
come in--all I had in view.” And she sounded it again--he should have it
once more. “Your knowing that I’ve ceased--”
“That you’ve ceased--?” With her pause, in fact, she had fairly made him
press her for it.
“Why, to be as I was. NOT to know.”
It was once more then, after a little, that he had had to stand
receptive; yet the singular effect of this was that there was still
something of the same sort he was made to want. He had another
hesitation, but at last this odd quantity showed. “Then does any one
else know?”
It was as near as he could come to naming her father, and she kept him
at that distance. “Any one--?”
“Any one, I mean, but Fanny Assingham.”
“I should have supposed you had had by this time particular means of
learning. I don’t see,” she said, “why you ask me.”
Then, after an instant--and only after an instant, as she saw--he made
out what she meant; and it gave her, all strangely enough, the still
further light that Charlotte, for herself, knew as little as he had
known. The vision loomed, in this light, it fairly glared, for the
few seconds--the vision of the two others alone together at Fawns, and
Charlotte, as one of them, having gropingly to go on, always not knowing
and not knowing! The picture flushed at the same time with all its
essential colour--that of the so possible identity of her father’s
motive and principle with her own. HE was “deep,” as Amerigo called it,
so that no vibration of the still air should reach his daughter; just
as she had earned that description by making and by, for that matter,
intending still to make, her care for his serenity, or at any rate
for the firm outer shell of his dignity, all marvellous enamel, her
paramount law. More strangely even than anything else, her husband
seemed to speak now but to help her in this. “I know nothing but what
you tell me.”
“Then I’ve told you all I intended. Find out the rest--!”
“Find it out--?” He waited.
She stood before him a moment--it took that time to go on. Depth upon
depth of her situation, as she met his face, surged and sank within her;
but with the effect somehow, once more, that they rather lifted her than
let her drop. She had her feet somewhere, through it all--it was her
companion, absolutely, who was at sea. And she kept her feet; she
pressed them to what was beneath her. She went over to the bell beside
the chimney and gave a ring that he could but take as a summons for her
maid. It stopped everything for the present; it was an intimation to him
to go and dress. But she had to insist. “Find out for yourself!”
PART FIFTH
                            XXXV
After the little party was again constituted at Fawns--which had taken,
for completeness, some ten days--Maggie naturally felt herself still
more possessed, in spirit, of everything that had last happened in
London. There was a phrase that came back to her from old American
years: she was having, by that idiom, the time of her life--she knew it
by the perpetual throb of this sense of possession, which was almost
too violent either to recognise or to hide. It was as if she had come
out--that was her most general consciousness; out of a dark tunnel, a
dense wood, or even simply a smoky room, and had thereby, at least,
for going on, the advantage of air in her lungs. It was as if she were
somehow at last gathering in the fruits of patience; she had either been
really more patient than she had known at the time, or had been so for
longer: the change brought about by itself as great a difference of
view as the shift of an inch in the position of a telescope. It was her
telescope in fact that had gained in range--just as her danger lay
in her exposing herself to the observation by the more charmed, and
therefore the more reckless, use of this optical resource. Not under
any provocation to produce it in public was her unremitted rule; but
the difficulties of duplicity had not shrunk, while the need of it had
doubled. Humbugging, which she had so practised with her father, had
been a comparatively simple matter on the basis of mere doubt; but the
ground to be covered was now greatly larger, and she felt not unlike
some young woman of the theatre who, engaged for a minor part in the
play and having mastered her cues with anxious effort, should find
herself suddenly promoted to leading lady and expected to appear in
every act of the five. She had made much to her husband, that last
night, of her “knowing”; but it was exactly this quantity she now
knew that, from the moment she could only dissimulate it, added to her
responsibility and made of the latter all a mere question of having
something precious and precarious in charge. There was no one to help
her with it--not even Fanny Assingham now; this good friend’s presence
having become, inevitably, with that climax of their last interview in
Portland Place, a severely simplified function. She had her use, oh
yes, a thousand times; but it could only consist henceforth in her quite
conspicuously touching at no point whatever--assuredly, at least with
Maggie--the matter they had discussed. She was there, inordinately, as a
value, but as a value only for the clear negation of everything. She was
their general sign, precisely, of unimpaired beatitude--and she was to
live up to that somewhat arduous character, poor thing, as she might.
She might privately lapse from it, if she must, with Amerigo or with
Charlotte--only not, of course, ever, so much as for the wink of an eye,
with the master of the house. Such lapses would be her own affair, which
Maggie at present could take no thought of. She treated her young friend
meanwhile, it was to be said, to no betrayal of such wavering; so that
from the moment of her alighting at the door with the Colonel everything
went on between them at concert pitch. What had she done, that last
evening in Maggie’s room, but bring the husband and wife more together
than, as would seem, they had ever been? Therefore what indiscretion
should she not show by attempting to go behind the grand appearance of
her success?--which would be to court a doubt of her beneficent work.
She knew accordingly nothing but harmony and diffused, restlessly,
nothing but peace--an extravagant, expressive, aggressive peace, not
incongruous, after all, with the solid calm of the place; a kind of
helmetted, trident-shaking pax Britannica.
The peace, it must be added, had become, as the days elapsed, a peace
quite generally animated and peopled--thanks to that fact of the
presence of “company” in which Maggie’s ability to preserve an
appearance had learned, from so far back, to find its best resource. It
was not inconspicuous, it was in fact striking, that this resource, just
now, seemed to meet in the highest degree every one’s need: quite as if
every one were, by the multiplication of human objects in the scene, by
the creation, by the confusion, of fictive issues, hopeful of escaping
somebody else’s notice. It had reached the point, in truth, that the
collective bosom might have been taken to heave with the knowledge of
the descent upon adjacent shores, for a short period, of Mrs. Rance and
the Lutches, still united, and still so divided, for conquest: the sense
of the party showed at least, oddly enough, as favourable to the fancy
of the quaint turn that some near “week-end” might derive from their
reappearance. This measured for Maggie the ground they had all travelled
together since that unforgotten afternoon of the none so distant year,
that determinant September Sunday when, sitting with her father in the
park, as in commemoration of the climax both of their old order and of
their old danger, she had proposed to him that they should “call
in” Charlotte,--call her in as a specialist might be summoned to an
invalid’s chair. Wasn’t it a sign of something rather portentous, their
being ready to be beholden, as for a diversion, to the once despised
Kitty and Dotty? That had already had its application, in truth, to her
invocation of the Castledeans and several other members, again, of
the historic Matcham week, made before she left town, and made, always
consistently, with an idea--since she was never henceforth to approach
these people without an idea, and since that lurid element of their
intercourse grew and grew for her with each occasion. The flame with
which it burned afresh during these particular days, the way it held up
the torch to anything, to everything, that MIGHT have occurred as the
climax of revels springing from traditions so vivified--this by itself
justified her private motive and reconsecrated her diplomacy. She had
already produced by the aid of these people something of the effect she
sought--that of being “good” for whatever her companions were good for,
and of not asking either of them to give up anyone or anything for her
sake. There was moreover, frankly, a sharpness of point in it that she
enjoyed; it gave an accent to the truth she wished to illustrate--the
truth that the surface of her recent life, thick-sown with the flower of
earnest endeavour, with every form of the unruffled and the undoubting,
suffered no symptom anywhere to peep out. It was as if, under her
pressure, neither party could get rid of the complicity, as it might be
figured, of the other; as if, in a word, she saw Amerigo and Charlotte
committed, for fear of betrayals on their own side, to a kind of wan
consistency on the subject of Lady Castledean’s “set,” and this latter
group, by the same stroke, compelled to assist at attestations the
extent and bearing of which they rather failed to grasp and which left
them indeed, in spite of hereditary high spirits, a trifle bewildered
and even a trifle scared.
They made, none the less, at Fawns, for number, for movement, for
sound--they played their parts during a crisis that must have hovered
for them, in the long passages of the old house, after the fashion
of the established ghost, felt, through the dark hours as a constant
possibility, rather than have menaced them in the form of a daylight
bore, one of the perceived outsiders who are liable to be met in the
drawing-room or to be sat next to at dinner. If the Princess, moreover,
had failed of her occult use for so much of the machinery of diversion,
she would still have had a sense not other than sympathetic for the
advantage now extracted from it by Fanny Assingham’s bruised philosophy.
This good friend’s relation to it was actually the revanche, she
sufficiently indicated, of her obscured lustre at Matcham, where she had
known her way about so much less than most of the others. She knew it
at Fawns, through the pathless wild of the right tone, positively
better than any one, Maggie could note for her; and her revenge had the
magnanimity of a brave pointing out of it to every one else, a wonderful
irresistible, conscious, almost compassionate patronage. Here was a
house, she triumphantly caused it to be noted, in which she so bristled
with values that some of them might serve, by her amused willingness to
share, for such of the temporarily vague, among her fellow-guests, such
of the dimly disconcerted, as had lost the key to their own. It may have
been partly through the effect of this especial strain of community with
her old friend that Maggie found herself, one evening, moved to take
up again their dropped directness of reference. They had remained
downstairs together late; the other women of the party had filed, singly
or in couples, up the “grand” staircase on which, from the equally grand
hall, these retreats and advances could always be pleasantly observed;
the men had apparently taken their way to the smoking-room; while the
Princess, in possession thus of a rare reach of view, had lingered as
if to enjoy it. Then she saw that Mrs. Assingham was remaining a
little--and as for the appreciation of her enjoyment; upon which they
stood looking at each other across the cleared prospect until the elder
woman, only vaguely expressive and tentative now, came nearer. It was
like the act of asking if there were anything she could yet do, and that
question was answered by her immediately feeling, on this closer view,
as she had felt when presenting herself in Portland Place after Maggie’s
last sharp summons. Their understanding was taken up by these new
snatched moments where that occasion had left it.
“He has never told her that I know. Of that I’m at last satisfied.” And
then as Mrs. Assingham opened wide eyes: “I’ve been in the dark since
we came down, not understanding what he has been doing or intending--not
making out what can have passed between them. But within a day or two
I’ve begun to suspect, and this evening, for reasons--oh, too many to
tell you!--I’ve been sure, since it explains. NOTHING has passed between
them--that’s what has happened. It explains,” the Princess repeated
with energy; “it explains, it explains!” She spoke in a manner that her
auditor was afterwards to describe to the Colonel, oddly enough, as that
of the quietest excitement; she had turned back to the chimney-place,
where, in honour of a damp day and a chill night, the piled logs had
turned to flame and sunk to embers; and the evident intensity of her
vision for the fact she imparted made Fanny Assingham wait upon her
words. It explained, this striking fact, more indeed than her companion,
though conscious of fairly gaping with good-will, could swallow at once.
The Princess, however, as for indulgence and confidence, quickly filled
up the measure. “He hasn’t let her know that I know--and, clearly,
doesn’t mean to. He has made up his mind; he’ll say nothing about it.
Therefore, as she’s quite unable to arrive at the knowledge by herself,
she has no idea how much I’m really in possession. She believes,” said
Maggie, “and, so far as her own conviction goes, she knows, that I’m not
in possession of anything. And that, somehow, for my own help seems to
me immense.”
“Immense, my dear!” Mrs. Assingham applausively murmured, though not
quite, even as yet, seeing all the way. “He’s keeping quiet then on
purpose?”
“On purpose.” Maggie’s lighted eyes, at least, looked further than they
had ever looked. “He’ll NEVER tell her now.”
Fanny wondered; she cast about her; most of all she admired her little
friend, in whom this announcement was evidently animated by an heroic
lucidity. She stood there, in her full uniform, like some small erect
commander of a siege, an anxious captain who has suddenly got news,
replete with importance for him, of agitation, of division within the
place. This importance breathed upon her comrade. “So you’re all right?”
“Oh, ALL right’s a good deal to say. But I seem at least to see, as I
haven’t before, where I am with it.”
Fanny bountifully brooded; there was a point left vague. “And you have
it from him?--your husband himself has told you?”
“‘Told’ me--?”
“Why, what you speak of. It isn’t of an assurance received from him then
that you do speak?”
At which Maggie had continued to stare. “Dear me, no. Do you suppose
I’ve asked him for an assurance?”
“Ah, you haven’t?” Her companion smiled. “That’s what I supposed you
MIGHT mean. Then, darling, what HAVE you--?”
“Asked him for? I’ve asked him for nothing.”
But this, in turn, made Fanny stare. “Then nothing, that evening of the
Embassy dinner, passed between you?”
“On the contrary, everything passed.”
“Everything--?”
“Everything. I told him what I knew--and I told him how I knew it.”
Mrs. Assingham waited. “And that was all?”
“Wasn’t it quite enough?”
“Oh, love,” she bridled, “that’s for you to have judged!”
“Then I HAVE judged,” said Maggie--“I did judge. I made sure he
understood--then I let him alone.”
Mrs. Assingham wondered. “But he didn’t explain--?”
“Explain? Thank God, no!” Maggie threw back her head as with horror at
the thought, then the next moment added: “And I didn’t, either.”
The decency of pride in it shed a cold little light--yet as from heights
at the base of which her companion rather panted. “But if he neither
denies nor confesses--?”
“He does what’s a thousand times better--he lets it alone. He does,”
 Maggie went on, “as he would do; as I see now that I was sure he would.
He lets me alone.”
Fanny Assingham turned it over. “Then how do you know so where, as you
say, you ‘are’?”
“Why, just BY that. I put him in possession of the difference; the
difference made, about me, by the fact that I hadn’t been, after
all--though with a wonderful chance, I admitted, helping me--too
stupid to have arrived at knowledge. He had to see that I’m changed for
him--quite changed from the idea of me that he had so long been going on
with. It became a question then of his really taking in the change--and
what I now see is that he is doing so.”
Fanny followed as she could. “Which he shows by letting you, as you say,
alone?”
Maggie looked at her a minute. “And by letting her.”
Mrs. Assingham did what she might to embrace it--checked a little,
however, by a thought that was the nearest approach she could have, in
this almost too large air, to an inspiration. “Ah, but does Charlotte
let HIM?”
“Oh, that’s another affair--with which I’ve practically nothing to do.
I dare say, however, she doesn’t.” And the Princess had a more distant
gaze for the image evoked by the question. “I don’t in fact well see how
she CAN. But the point for me is that he understands.”
“Yes,” Fanny Assingham cooed, “understands--?”
“Well, what I want. I want a happiness without a hole in it big enough
for you to poke in your finger.”
“A brilliant, perfect surface--to begin with at least. I see.”
“The golden bowl--as it WAS to have been.” And Maggie dwelt musingly on
this obscured figure. “The bowl with all our happiness in it. The bowl
without the crack.”
For Mrs. Assingham too the image had its force, and the precious object
shone before her again, reconstituted, plausible, presentable. But
wasn’t there still a piece missing? “Yet if he lets you alone and you
only let him--?”
“Mayn’t our doing so, you mean, be noticed?--mayn’t it give us away?
Well, we hope not--we try not--we take such care. We alone know what’s
between us--we and you; and haven’t you precisely been struck, since
you’ve been here,” Maggie asked, “with our making so good a show?”
Her friend hesitated. “To your father?”
But it made her hesitate too; she wouldn’t speak of her father directly.
“To everyone. To her--now that you understand.”
It held poor Fanny again in wonder. “To Charlotte--yes: if there’s so
much beneath it, for you, and if it’s all such a plan. That makes
it hang together it makes YOU hang together.” She fairly exhaled her
admiration. “You’re like nobody else--you’re extraordinary.”
Maggie met it with appreciation, but with a reserve. “No, I’m not
extraordinary--but I AM, for every one, quiet.”
“Well, that’s just what is extraordinary. ‘Quiet’ is more than I am,
and you leave me far behind.” With which, again, for an instant, Mrs.
Assingham frankly brooded. “‘Now that I understand,’ you say--but
there’s one thing I don’t understand.” And the next minute, while her
companion waited, she had mentioned it. “How can Charlotte, after all,
not have pressed him, not have attacked him about it? How can she not
have asked him--asked him on his honour, I mean--if you know?”
“How can she ‘not’? Why, of course,” said the Princess limpidly, “she
MUST!”
“Well then--?”
“Well then, you think, he must have told her? Why, exactly what I mean,”
 said Maggie, “is that he will have done nothing of the sort; will, as I
say, have maintained the contrary.”
Fanny Assingham weighed it. “Under her direct appeal for the truth?”
“Under her direct appeal for the truth.”
“Her appeal to his honour?”
“Her appeal to his honour. That’s my point.”
Fanny Assingham braved it. “For the truth as from him to her?”
“From him to any one.”
Mrs. Assingham’s face lighted. “He’ll simply, he’ll insistently have
lied?”
Maggie brought it out roundly. “He’ll simply, he’ll insistently have
lied.”
It held again her companion, who next, however, with a single movement,
throwing herself on her neck, overflowed. “Oh, if you knew how you help
me!”
Maggie had liked her to understand, so far as this was possible; but had
not been slow to see afterwards how the possibility was limited, when
one came to think, by mysteries she was not to sound. This inability in
her was indeed not remarkable, inasmuch as the Princess herself, as
we have seen, was only now in a position to boast of touching bottom.
Maggie lived, inwardly, in a consciousness that she could but partly
open even to so good a friend, and her own visitation of the fuller
expanse of which was, for that matter, still going on. They had been
duskier still, however, these recesses of her imagination--that, no
doubt, was what might at present be said for them. She had looked into
them, on the eve of her leaving town, almost without penetration: she
had made out in those hours, and also, of a truth, during the days which
immediately followed, little more than the strangeness of a relation
having for its chief mark--whether to be prolonged or not--the absence
of any “intimate” result of the crisis she had invited her husband to
recognise. They had dealt with this crisis again, face to face, very
briefly, the morning after the scene in her room--but with the odd
consequence of her having appeared merely to leave it on his hands. He
had received it from her as he might have received a bunch of keys or a
list of commissions--attentive to her instructions about them, but only
putting them, for the time, very carefully and safely, into his
pocket. The instructions had seemed, from day to day, to make so little
difference for his behaviour--that is for his speech or his silence;
to produce, as yet, so little of the fruit of action. He had taken from
her, on the spot, in a word, before going to dress for dinner, all she
then had to give--after which, on the morrow, he had asked her for more,
a good deal as if she might have renewed her supply during the night;
but he had had at his command for this latter purpose an air of
extraordinary detachment and discretion, an air amounting really to an
appeal which, if she could have brought herself to describe it vulgarly,
she would have described as cool, just as he himself would have
described it in any one else as “cheeky”; a suggestion that she should
trust him on the particular ground since she didn’t on the general.
Neither his speech nor his silence struck her as signifying more, or
less, under this pressure, than they had seemed to signify for weeks
past; yet if her sense hadn’t been absolutely closed to the possibility
in him of any thought of wounding her, she might have taken his
undisturbed manner, the perfection of his appearance of having recovered
himself, for one of those intentions of high impertinence by the aid of
which great people, les grands seigneurs, persons of her husband’s class
and type, always know how to re-establish a violated order.
It was her one purely good fortune that she could feel thus sure
impertinence--to HER at any rate--was not among the arts on which he
proposed to throw himself; for though he had, in so almost mystifying
a manner, replied to nothing, denied nothing, explained nothing,
apologised for nothing, he had somehow conveyed to her that this was not
because of any determination to treat her case as not “worth” it. There
had been consideration, on both occasions, in the way he had listened
to her--even though at the same time there had been extreme reserve;
a reserve indeed, it was also to be remembered, qualified by the fact
that, on their second and shorter interview, in Portland Place, and
quite at the end of this passage, she had imagined him positively
proposing to her a temporary accommodation. It had been but the matter
of something in the depths of the eyes he finally fixed upon her,
and she had found in it, the more she kept it before her, the
tacitly-offered sketch of a working arrangement. “Leave me my reserve;
don’t question it--it’s all I have, just now, don’t you see? so that, if
you’ll make me the concession of letting me alone with it for as long a
time as I require, I promise you something or other, grown under cover
of it, even though I don’t yet quite make out what, as a return for your
patience.” She had turned away from him with some such unspoken words as
that in her ear, and indeed she had to represent to herself that she had
spiritually heard them, had to listen to them still again, to explain
her particular patience in face of his particular failure. He hadn’t so
much as pretended to meet for an instant the question raised by her of
her accepted ignorance of the point in time, the period before their own
marriage, from which his intimacy with Charlotte dated. As an ignorance
in which he and Charlotte had been personally interested--and to the
pitch of consummately protecting, for years, each other’s interest--as
a condition so imposed upon her the fact of its having ceased might
have made it, on the spot, the first article of his defence. He had
vouchsafed it, however, nothing better than his longest stare of
postponed consideration. That tribute he had coldly paid it, and Maggie
might herself have been stupefied, truly, had she not had something to
hold on by, at her own present ability, even provisional, to make terms
with a chapter of history into which she could but a week before not
have dipped without a mortal chill. At the rate at which she was living
she was getting used hour by hour to these extensions of view; and when
she asked herself, at Fawns, to what single observation of her own, in
London, the Prince had had an affirmation to oppose, she but just failed
to focus the small strained wife of the moments in question as
some panting dancer of a difficult step who had capered, before the
footlights of an empty theatre, to a spectator lounging in a box.
Her best comprehension of Amerigo’s success in not committing himself
was in her recall, meanwhile, of the inquiries he had made of her on
their only return to the subject, and which he had in fact explicitly
provoked their return in order to make. He had had it over with her
again, the so distinctly remarkable incident of her interview at home
with the little Bloomsbury shopman. This anecdote, for him, had, not
altogether surprisingly, required some straighter telling, and the
Prince’s attitude in presence of it had represented once more his
nearest approach to a cross-examination. The difficulty in respect to
the little man had been for the question of his motive--his motive in
writing, first, in the spirit of retraction, to a lady with whom he had
made a most advantageous bargain, and in then coming to see her so that
his apology should be personal. Maggie had felt her explanation weak;
but there were the facts, and she could give no other. Left alone, after
the transaction, with the knowledge that his visitor designed the object
bought of him as a birthday-gift to her father--for Maggie confessed
freely to having chattered to him almost as to a friend--the vendor of
the golden bowl had acted on a scruple rare enough in vendors of any
class, and almost unprecedented in the thrifty children of Israel. He
hadn’t liked what he had done, and what he had above all made such a
“good thing” of having done; at the thought of his purchaser’s good
faith and charming presence, opposed to that flaw in her acquestion
which would make it, verily, as an offering to a loved parent, a thing
of sinister meaning and evil effect, he had known conscientious, he
had known superstitious visitings, had given way to a whim all the more
remarkable to his own commercial mind, no doubt, from its never having
troubled him in other connexions. She had recognised the oddity of
her adventure and left it to show for what it was. She had not been
unconscious, on the other hand, that if it hadn’t touched Amerigo so
nearly he would have found in it matter for some amused reflection.
He had uttered an extraordinary sound, something between a laugh and
a howl, on her saying, as she had made a point of doing: “Oh, most
certainly, he TOLD me his reason was because he ‘liked’ me”--though she
remained in doubt of whether that inarticulate comment had been provoked
most by the familiarities she had offered or by those that, so pictured,
she had had to endure. That the partner of her bargain had yearned to
see her again, that he had plainly jumped at a pretext for it, this
also she had frankly expressed herself to the Prince as having, in no
snubbing, no scandalised, but rather in a positively appreciative
and indebted spirit, not delayed to make out. He had wished, ever
so seriously, to return her a part of her money, and she had wholly
declined to receive it; and then he had uttered his hope that she had
not, at all events, already devoted the crystal cup to the beautiful
purpose she had, so kindly and so fortunately, named to him. It wasn’t
a thing for a present to a person she was fond of, for she wouldn’t wish
to give a present that would bring ill luck. That had come to him--so
that he couldn’t rest, and he should feel better now that he had told
her. His having led her to act in ignorance was what he should have been
ashamed of; and, if she would pardon, gracious lady as she was, all the
liberties he had taken, she might make of the bowl any use in life but
that one.
It was after this that the most extraordinary incident of all, of
course, had occurred--his pointing to the two photographs with the
remark that those were persons he knew, and that, more wonderful still,
he had made acquaintance with them, years before, precisely over the
same article. The lady, on that occasion, had taken up the fancy of
presenting it to the gentleman, and the gentleman, guessing and dodging
ever so cleverly, had declared that he wouldn’t for the world receive an
object under such suspicion. He himself, the little man had confessed,
wouldn’t have minded--about THEM; but he had never forgotten either
their talk or their faces, the impression altogether made by them, and,
if she really wished to know, now, what had perhaps most moved him, it
was the thought that she should ignorantly have gone in for a thing not
good enough for other buyers. He had been immensely struck--that was
another point--with this accident of their turning out, after so long,
friends of hers too: they had disappeared, and this was the only light
he had ever had upon them. He had flushed up, quite red, with his
recognition, with all his responsibility--had declared that the
connexion must have had, mysteriously, something to do with the impulse
he had obeyed. And Maggie had made, to her husband, while he again
stood before her, no secret of the shock, for herself, so suddenly and
violently received. She had done her best, even while taking it full
in the face, not to give herself away; but she wouldn’t answer--no, she
wouldn’t--for what she might, in her agitation, have made her informant
think. He might think what he would--there had been three or four
minutes during which, while she asked him question upon question, she
had doubtless too little cared. And he had spoken, for his remembrance,
as fully as she could have wished; he had spoken, oh, delightedly, for
the “terms” on which his other visitors had appeared to be with each
other, and in fact for that conviction of the nature and degree of their
intimacy under which, in spite of precautions, they hadn’t been able to
help leaving him. He had observed and judged and not forgotten; he had
been sure they were great people, but no, ah no, distinctly, hadn’t
“liked” them as he liked the Signora Principessa. Certainly--she had
created no vagueness about that--he had been in possession of her name
and address, for sending her both her cup and her account. But the
others he had only, always, wondered about--he had been sure they would
never come back. And as to the time of their visit, he could place it,
positively, to a day--by reason of a transaction of importance, recorded
in his books, that had occurred but a few hours later. He had left her,
in short, definitely rejoicing that he had been able to make up to
her for not having been quite “square” over their little business by
rendering her, so unexpectedly, the service of this information. His
joy, moreover, was--as much as Amerigo would!--a matter of the personal
interest with which her kindness, gentleness, grace, her charming
presence and easy humanity and familiarity, had inspired him. All of
which, while, in thought, Maggie went over it again and again--oh, over
any imputable rashness of her own immediate passion and pain, as well
as over the rest of the straight little story she had, after all, to
tell--might very conceivably make a long sum for the Prince to puzzle
out.
There were meanwhile, after the Castledeans and those invited to meet
them had gone, and before Mrs. Rance and the Lutches had come, three or
four days during which she was to learn the full extent of her need not
to be penetrable; and then it was indeed that she felt all the force,
and threw herself upon all the help, of the truth she had confided,
several nights earlier, to Fanny Assingham. She had known it in advance,
had warned herself of it while the house was full: Charlotte had designs
upon her of a nature best known to herself, and was only waiting for the
better opportunity of their finding themselves less companioned.
This consciousness had been exactly at the bottom of Maggie’s wish
to multiply their spectators; there were moments for her, positively,
moments of planned postponement, of evasion scarcely less disguised
than studied, during which she turned over with anxiety the different
ways--there being two or three possible ones--in which her young
stepmother might, at need, seek to work upon her. Amerigo’s not having
“told” her of his passage with his wife gave, for Maggie, altogether a
new aspect to Charlotte’s consciousness and condition--an aspect
with which, for apprehension, for wonder, and even, at moments,
inconsequently enough, for something like compassion, the Princess had
now to reckon. She asked herself--for she was capable of that--what he
had MEANT by keeping the sharer of his guilt in the dark about a matter
touching her otherwise so nearly; what he had meant, that is, for this
unmistakably mystified personage herself. Maggie could imagine what he
had meant for her--all sorts of thinkable things, whether things of mere
“form” or things of sincerity, things of pity or things of prudence: he
had meant, for instance, in all probability, primarily, to conjure away
any such appearance of a changed relation between the two women as his
father-in-law might notice and follow up. It would have been open to him
however, given the pitch of their intimacy, to avert this danger by some
more conceivable course with Charlotte; since an earnest warning, in
fact, the full freedom of alarm, that of his insisting to her on the
peril of suspicion incurred, and on the importance accordingly of
outward peace at any price, would have been the course really most
conceivable. Instead of warning and advising he had reassured and
deceived her; so that our young woman, who had been, from far back,
by the habit, if her nature, as much on her guard against sacrificing
others as if she felt the great trap of life mainly to be set for one’s
doing so, now found herself attaching her fancy to that side of the
situation of the exposed pair which involved, for themselves at least,
the sacrifice of the least fortunate.
She never, at present, thought of what Amerigo might be intending,
without the reflection, by the same stroke, that, whatever this
quantity, he was leaving still more to her own ingenuity. He was helping
her, when the thing came to the test, only by the polished, possibly
almost too polished surface his manner to his wife wore for an admiring
world; and that, surely, was entitled to scarcely more than the praise
of negative diplomacy. He was keeping his manner right, as she had
related to Mrs. Assingham; the case would have been beyond calculation,
truly, if, on top of everything, he had allowed it to go wrong. She had
hours of exaltation indeed when the meaning of all this pressed in upon
her as a tacit vow from him to abide without question by whatever she
should be able to achieve or think fit to prescribe. Then it was that,
even while holding her breath for the awe of it, she truly felt almost
able enough for anything. It was as if she had passed, in a time
incredibly short, from being nothing for him to being all; it was as if,
rightly noted, every turn of his head, every tone of his voice, in these
days, might mean that there was but one way in which a proud man reduced
to abjection could hold himself. During those of Maggie’s vigils in
which that view loomed largest, the image of her husband that it thus
presented to her gave out a beauty for the revelation of which she
struck herself as paying, if anything, all too little. To make sure of
it--to make sure of the beauty shining out of the humility, and of the
humility lurking in all the pride of his presence--she would have gone
