the right. Then they drafted me; and I tried to tell them it was an
outrage, but they gave me the choice between Fort Lafayette and Kay's
Cavalry.... And I took the Cavalry and waited.... I wouldn't have gone
as far as to fight against the flag--if they had let me alone.... I only
had my private opinion that the South was more in the right than we--the
North--was.... I'm old enough to have an opinion about niggers, and I'm
no coward either.... They drove me to this; I didn't want to kill people
who were more in the right than we were.... But they made me enlist--and
I couldn't stand it.... And now, if I've got to fight, I'll fight
bullies and brutes who----"
He ended with a gesture--an angry, foolish boast, shaking his weapon
toward the north. Then, hot, panting, sullenly sensible of his fatigue,
he laid the pistol on the table and glowered at the floor.
She could have taken him, unarmed, at any moment, now.
"Soldier," she said gently, "listen to me."
He looked up with heavy-lidded eyes.
"I am trying to help you to safety," she said.
A hot flush of mortification mantled his face:
"Thank you.... I ought to have known; I--I am ashamed of what I
said--what I did."
"You were only a little frightened; I am not angry."
"You understand, don't you?"
"A--little."
"You are Southern, then?" he said; and in spite of himself his heavy
lids began to droop again.
"No; Northern," she replied.
His eyes flew wide open at that, and he straightened up in his chair.
"Are you afraid of me, Soldier?"
"No," he said, ashamed again. "But--you're going to tell on me after I
am gone."
"No."
"Why not?" he demanded suspiciously.
She leaned both elbows on the table, and resting her chin on both palms,
smiled at him.
"Because," she said, "you are going to tell on yourself, Roy."
"What!" he blurted out in angry astonishment.
"You are going to tell on yourself.... You are going back to your
regiment.... It will be your own idea, too; it has been your own idea
all the while--your secret desire every moment since you deserted----"
"Are you crazy!" he cried, aghast; "or do you think I am?"
"--ever since you deserted," she went on, dark eyes looking deep into
his, "it has been your desire to go back.... Fear held you; rage
hardened your heart; dread of death as your punishment; angry brooding
on what you believed was a terrible injustice done you--all these drove
you to panic.... Don't scowl at me: don't say what is on your lips to
say. You are only a tired, frightened boy--scarcely eighteen, are you?
And at eighteen no heart can really be a traitor."
"Traitor!" he repeated, losing all his angry color.
"It is a bad word, isn't it, Roy? Lying hidden and starving in the
forest through the black nights you had to fight that word away from
you--drive it out of your half-crazed senses--often--didn't you? Don't
you think I know, my boy, what a dreadful future you faced, lying there
through the stifling nights while they hunted you to hang you?
"I know, also, that what you did you did in a moment of insane rage. I
know that the moment it was done you would, in your secret soul, have
given the world to have undone it."
"No!" he cried. "I was right!"
She rose, walked to the door, and seated herself on the sill, looking up
at the stars.
For an hour she sat there, silent. Behind her, leaning heavily on the
table, he crouched, hot eyes wide, pulse heavy in throat and body. And
at last, without turning, she called to him--three times, very gently,
speaking his name; and at the third call he rose and came stumbling
toward her.
"Sit here."
He sank down beside her on the sill.
"Are you very tired?"
"Yes."
She placed one arm around him, drawing his hot head down on her
shoulder.
"How foolish you have been," she whispered. "But, of course, your mother
must not know it.... There is no reason to tell her--ever.... Because
you went quite mad for a little while--and nobody is blamed for mental
sickness.... How bright the stars are.... What a heavenly coolness after
that dreadful work.... How feverish you are! I think that your regiment
believes you roamed away while suffering from sunstroke.... Their
Colonel is a good friend of mine. Tell him you're sorry."
His head lay heavily on her shoulder; she laid a fresh hand over his
eyes.
"If the South is right, if we of the North are right, God knows better
than you or I, Roy.... And if you are so bewildered that you have no
deep conviction either way I think you may trust Him who set you among
Kay's Cavalry.... God never betrayed a human soul in honest doubt."
"It--it was the flag!--that was the hardest to get over--" he began, and
choked, smothering the dry sob against her breast.
"I know, dear.... The old flag means so much--it means all that our
fathers have been, all that we ought to be for the world's sake. Anger,
private resentment, bitterness under tyranny--these are little things;
for, after all, the flag still stands for what we ought to be--you and I
and those who misuse us, wittingly or otherwise.... Where are the
papers you took?"
He pressed his feverish face closer to her shoulder and fumbled at the
buttons of his jacket.
"Here?" she asked softly, aiding him with deft fingers; and in a moment
she had secured them.
For a while she held him there, cradling him; and his dry, burning face
seemed to scorch her shoulder.
Dawn was in the sky when she unclosed her eyes--a cool, gray dawn,
hinting of rain.
She looked down at the boy. His head lay across her lap; he slept,
motionless as the dead.
The sun rose, a pale spot on the gray horizon.
"Come," she said gently. And again, "Come; I want you to take me across
the ferry."
He rose and stood swaying on his feet, rubbing both eyes with briar-torn
fists.
"You will take me, won't you, Roy?"
"Where?"
"Back to your regiment."
"Yes--I'll take you."
For a few moments she was busy gathering up her spools and linen.
"You carry my saddlebags," she said, "and I'll take the kitten. Isn't it
cunning, Roy? Do look at the poor little thing! We can't leave it here."
Following, laden with her saddlebags, he stammered:
"Do--d-do you think they'll shoot me?"
"No," she said, smiling. "Be careful of the ferry steps; they are
dreadfully shaky."
She began the descent, clasping the kitten in both arms; the boy
followed. Seated in the punt, they stowed away the saddlebags and the
kitten, then he picked up the pole, looked at her, hesitated. She
waited.
"I guess the old man will have me shot.... But--I am going back," he
said, as though to himself.
She watched him; he looked up.
"You're right, ma'am. I must have been crazy. Everybody reads about
traitors--in school.... Nobody ever forgets their names.... I don't want
my name in school books."
"Like Benedict Arnold's," she said; and he quivered from head to foot.
"Oh, cricky!" he burst out, horrified; "how close I came to it! Have you
got those papers safe?"
"Yes, Roy."
"Then I'll go. I don't care what they do to me."
As he rose with the pole, far away in the woods across the river a
cavalry band began to play. Faint and clear the strains of the
Star-Spangled Banner rose from among the trees and floated over the
water; the boy stood spellbound, mouth open; then, as the far music died
away, he sank back into the boat, deathly pale.
"I--I ought to be hung!" he whispered.
The Messenger picked up the fallen pole, set it, and drove the punt out
into the river. Behind her, huddled in the stern, the prodigal wept,
uncomforted, head buried in his shaking arms; and the kitten, being
afraid, left the shelter of the thwarts and crept up on his knees,
sitting there and looking out at the unstable world of water in
round-eyed apprehension.
As the punt grated on the northern shore the Messenger drove her pole
into the mud, upright, and leaned on it.
"Roy," she said, looking back over her shoulder.
The boy rubbed his wet eyes with the sleeve of his jacket and got up.
"Are you afraid?"
"Not now."
"That is well.... You'll be punished.... Not severely.... For you came
back of your own accord--repentant.... Tell me, were you really afraid
that the Special Messenger might catch you?"
"Yes, I was," he said simply. "That's why I acted so rough with you....
I didn't know; they say any woman you see may be the Special
Messenger.... So I took no chances.... Who are you, anyway?"
"Only a friend of yours," she said, smiling. "Please pick up my kitten.
Thank you.... And some day, when you've been very, very good, I'll ask
Colonel Kay to let you take me fishing."
And she stepped lightly ashore; the boy followed, holding the kitten
under one arm and drying his grimy eyes on his sleeve.
VI
AN AIR-LINE
"As for me," continued Colonel Gay bitterly, "I'm driven almost frantic
by this conspiracy. Whenever a regiment arrives or leaves, whenever a
train stirs--yes, by Heaven, every time a locomotive toots or a mule
brays or a chicken has the pip--somebody informs the Johnnies, and
every detail is known to them within a few hours!"
The Special Messenger seated herself on the edge of the camp table. "I
suppose they are very disagreeable to you about it at headquarters."
"Yes, they are--but how can I help it? Somehow or other, whatever is
done or said or even thought in this devilish supply camp is immediately
reported to Jeb Stuart; every movement of trains and troops leaks out;
he'll know to-night what I ate for breakfast this morning--I'll bet on
that. And, Messenger, let me tell you something. Joking aside, this
thing is worrying me sick. Can you help me?"
"I'll try," she said. "Headquarters sent me. They're very anxious up
there about the railroad."
"I can't help it!" cried the distracted officer. "On Thursday I had to
concentrate the line-patrol to drive Maxon's bushwhackers out of Laurel
Siding; and look what Stuart did to me. No sooner were we off than he
struck the unguarded section and tore up two miles of track! What am I
to do?"
The Special Messenger shook her pretty head in sympathy.
"There's a leak somewhere," insisted the angry officer; "it smells to
Heaven, but I can't locate it. Somewhere there's a direct, intelligent
and sinister underground communication between Osage Court House and Jeb
Stuart at Sandy River--or wherever he is. And what I want you to do is
to locate that leak and plug it."
"Of course," murmured the Special Messenger, gently tapping her riding
skirt with her whip.
"Because," continued the Colonel, "headquarters is stripping this depot
of troops. The Bucktails go to-day; Casson's New York brigade and
Darrel's cavalry left yesterday. What remains is a mighty small garrison
for a big supply depot--eleven hundred effectives, and they may take
some of them at any moment. You see the danger?"
"Yes, I do."
"I've protested; I've pointed out the risk we run; I sent my third
messenger to headquarters this afternoon. Of course, they don't intend
to leave this depot unguarded--probably they'll send the Vermont troops
from the North this week--but between the departure of Casson's column
and the theoretical arrival of reënforcements from Preston, we'd be in a
bad way if Stuart should raid us in force. And with this irritating and
constant leaking out of information I'm horribly afraid he'll strike us
as soon as the Bucktails entrain."
"Why don't you hold the Pennsylvania infantry until we can find out
where the trouble lies?" asked the girl, raising her dark eyes to the
nervous young Colonel.
"I haven't the authority; I've asked for it twice. Orders stand; the
Bucktails are going, and I'm worried to death." He shoved his empty pipe
into his mouth and bit viciously at the stem.
"Then," she said, "if I'm to do anything I'd better hurry, hadn't I?"
The young officer's face grew grimmer. "Certainly; but I've been a month
at it and I'm no wiser. Of course I know you are very celebrated, ma'am;
but, really, do you think it likely that you can pick out this hidden
mischief-maker before he sends word to Stuart to-night of our deplorable
condition?"
"How long have I?"
"About a day."
"When do the Bucktails go?"
"At nine to-night."
"Who knows it?"
"Who doesn't? I can't move a regiment and its baggage in a day, can I?
I've given them twenty-four hours to break camp and entrain."
"Does the train master know which troops are going?"
"He has orders to hold three trains, steam up, night and day."
"I see," she murmured, strapping her soft riding hat more securely to
her hair with the elastic band. Her eyes had been wandering restlessly
around the tent as though searching for something which she could not
find.
"Have you a good map of the district?" she asked.
He went to his military chest, opened it, and produced a map. For a
while, both hands on the table, she leaned above the map studying the
environment.
"And Stuart? You say he's roaming around somewhere in touch with Sandy
River?" she asked, pointing with a pencil to that metropolis on the map.
"The Lord knows where he is!" muttered the Colonel. "He may be a
hundred miles south now, and in my back yard to-morrow by breakfast
time. But when he's watching us he's usually near Sandy River."
"I see. And these"--drawing her pencil in a wavering line--"are your
outposts? I mean those pickets nearest Sandy River."
"They are. Those are rifle pits."
"A grand guard patrols this line?" she asked, rising to her feet.
"Yes; a company of cavalry and a field gun."
"Do you issue passes?"
"Not to the inhabitants."
"Have any people--civilians--asked for passes?"
"I had two applications; one from a Miss Carryl, who lives about a mile
beyond here on the Sandy River Road; another from an old farmer, John
Deal, who has a fruit and truck farm half a mile outside our lines. He
wanted to come in with his produce and I let him for a while. But that
leakage worried me, so I stopped him."
"And this Miss Carryl--did she want to go out?"
"She owns the Deal farm. Yes, she wanted to drive over every day; and I
let her until, as I say, I felt obliged to stop the whole business--not
permit anybody to go out or come in except our own troops."
"And still the leakage continues?"
"It certainly does," he said dryly.
The Special Messenger seated herself on one end of the military chest
and gazed absently at space. Her booted foot swung gently at intervals.
"So this Miss Carryl owns John Deal's farm," she mused aloud.
"They run it on shares, I believe."
"Oh! Was she angry when you shut out her tenant, John Deal, and shut her
inside the lines?"
"No; she seemed a little surprised--said it was inconvenient--wanted
permission to write him."
"You gave it?"
"Yes. I intimated it would save time if she left her letters to him
unsealed. She seemed quite willing."
"You read them all, of course, before delivering them?"
"Of course. There was nothing in them except instructions about plowing,
fruit picking, and packing, and various bucolic matters."
"Oh! Nothing to be read between the lines? No cipher? No invisible ink?
No tricks of any sort?"
"Not one. I had a detective here. He said there was absolutely no harm
in the letters, in Miss Carryl, or in John Deal. I have all the letters
if you care to look at them; I always keep the originals and allow only
copies to be sent to old man Deal."
"Let me see those letters," suggested the Messenger.
The Colonel, who had been sitting on the camp table, got off wearily,
rummaged in a dispatch box, and produced three letters, all unsealed.
Two were directed in a delicately flowing, feminine hand to John Deal,
Waycross Orchard. The Messenger unfolded the first and read:
    Dear Mr. Deal:
    Colonel Gay has thought it necessary, for military reasons, to
    revoke my pass; and I shall, therefore, be obliged hereafter to
    communicate with you by letter only.
    I wish, if there are negroes enough remaining in the quarters,
    that you would start immediately a seedling orchard of white
    Rare-ripe peaches from my orchard here. I have permission to
    send the pits to you by the military post-rider who passes my
    house. I will send you twenty every day as my peaches ripen.
    Please prepare for planting. I hope your rheumatism is better.
                                        Yours very truly,
                                                 Evelyn Carryl.
The Messenger's dark eyes lifted dreamily to the Colonel:
"You gave her permission to send the pits by your post-rider?"
"Yes," he said, smiling; "but I always look over them myself. You know
the wedding gown of the fairy princess was hidden in a grape seed."
"You are quite sure about the pits?"
"Perfectly."
"Oh! When does the next batch of twenty go?"
"In about an hour. Miss Carryl puts them in a bag and gives them to my
messenger who brings them to me. Then I inspect every pit, tie up the
bag, seal it, and give it to my messenger. When he takes the mail to the
outposts he rides on for half a mile and leaves the sealed bag at Deal's
farm."
"Does your messenger know what is in the bag?"
"No, he doesn't."
She nodded, amused, saying carelessly:
"Of course you trust your post-rider?"
"Absolutely."
The Special Messenger swung her foot absently to and fro, and presently
opened another letter:
    Dear Mr. Deal:
    I am sending you twenty more peach pits for planting. What you
    write me about the bees is satisfactory. I have received the
    bees you sent. There is no reason why you should not make the
    exchange with Mr. Enderly, as it will benefit our hives as well
    as Mr. Enderly's to cross his Golden Indias with my Blacks.
The Messenger studied the letter thoughtfully; askance, the officer
watched the delicate play of expression on her absorbed young face,
perhaps a trifle incredulous that so distractingly pretty a woman could
be quite as intelligent as people believed.
She looked up at him quietly.
"So you gave Deal permission to send some bees to Miss Carryl and write
her a letter?"
"Once. I had the letter brought to me and I sent her a copy. Here it
is--the original."
He produced Deal's letter from the dispatch pouch, and the Messenger
read:
    Miss Evelyn Carryl,
        Osage Court House.
    Respected Miss:
    I send you the bees. I seen Mr. Enderly at Sandy River he says
    he is very wishful for to swap bees to cross the breed I says it
    shorely can be done if you say so I got the pits and am studyin'
    how to plant. The fruit is a rottin' can't the Yankees at Osage
    buy some truck nohow off'n me? So no more with respect from
                                                   John Deal
                                                         Supt.
"That seems rather harmless, doesn't it?" asked the Colonel wearily.
"I don't--know. I think I'll take a look at John Deal's beehives."
"His beehives!"
"Yes."
"What for?"
She shrugged her shoulders.
"I don't know--exactly. I was always fond of bees. They're so
useful"--she looked up artlessly--"so clever--quite wonderful, Colonel.
Have you ever read anything about bees--how they live and conduct
themselves?"
The Colonel eyed her narrowly; she laughed, sprang up from the military
chest, and handed back his letters.
"You have already formed your theory?" he inquired with a faintly
patronizing air, under which keen disappointment betrayed itself where
the grim, drooping mouth tightened.
"Yes, I have. There's a link missing, but--I may find that before night.
You can give me--how long?"
"The Bucktails leave at nine. See here, Messenger! With all the civility
and respect due you, I----"
"You are bitterly disappointed in me," she finished coolly. "I don't
blame you, Colonel Gay."
He was abashed at that, but unconvinced.
"Why do you suspect this Miss Carryl and this man, Deal, when I've
showed you how impossible it is that they could send out information?"
"Somehow," she said quietly, "they do send it--if they are the only
two people who have had passes, and who now are permitted to
correspond."
"But you saw the letters----"
"So did you, Colonel."
"I did!" he said emphatically; "and there's nothing dangerous in them.
As for the peach pits----"
"Oh, I'll take your word for them, too," she said, laughing. "When is
your post-rider due?"
"In a few minutes, now."
She began to pace backward and forward, the smile still lightly etched
on her lips. The officer watched her; puckers of disappointed anxiety
creased his forehead; he bit at his pipestem, and thought of the
Bucktails. Certainly Stuart would hear of their going; surely before the
northern reënforcements arrived the gray riders would come thundering
into Osage Court House. Fire, pillage, countless stores wasted, trains
destroyed, miles of railroads rendered useless. What, in Heaven's name,
could his superiors be thinking of, to run such risk with one of the
bases of supplies? Somewhere--somewhere, not far from corps
headquarters, sat incompetency enthroned--gross negligence--under a pair
of starred shoulder straps. And, musing bitterly, he thought he knew to
whom those shoulder straps belonged.
"The damn fool!" he muttered, biting at his pipe.
"Colonel," said the Messenger cheerily, "I am going to take the mail to
the outposts to-day."
"As you like," he said, without interest.
"I want, also, a pass for Miss Carryl."
"To pass our lines?"
"To pass out. She will not care to return."
"Certainly," he said with amiable curiosity.
He scratched off the order and she took it.
"Ask for anything you desire," he said, smiling.
"Then may I have this tent to myself for a little while? And would you
be kind enough to send for my saddlebags and my own horse."
The Colonel went to the tent flap, spoke to the trooper on guard. When
he came back he said that it was beginning to rain.
"Hard?" she asked, troubled.
"No; just a fine, warm drizzle. It won't last."
"All the better!" she cried, brightening; and it seemed to the young
officer as though the sun had gleamed for an instant on the tent wall.
But it was only the radiant charm of her, transfiguring, with its
youthful brilliancy, the dull light in the tent; and, presently, the
Colonel went away, leaving her very busy with her saddlebags.
There was a cavalry trooper's uniform in one bag; she undressed
hurriedly and put it on. Over this she threw a long, blue army cloak,
turned up the collar, and, twisting her hair tightly around her head,
pulled over it the gray, slouch campaign hat, with its crossed sabres of
gilt and its yellow braid.
It was a boyish-looking rider who mounted at the Colonel's tent and went
cantering away through the warm, misty rain, mail pouch and sabre
flopping.
There was no need for her to inquire the way. She knew Waycross, the
Carryl home, and John Deal's farm as well as she knew her own home in
Sandy River.
The drizzle had laid the dust and washed clean the roadside grass and
bushes; birds called expectantly from fence and thorny thicket, as the
sun whitened through the mist above; butterflies, clinging to dewy
sprays, opened their brilliant wings in anticipation; swallows and
martins were already soaring upward again; a clean, sweet, fragrant
vapor rose from earth and shrub.
Ahead of her, back from the road, at the end of its private avenue of
splendid oaks, an old house glimmered through the trees; and the Special
Messenger's eyes were fixed on it steadily as she rode.
Pillar, portico, and porch glistened white amid the leaves; Cherokee
roses covered the gallery lattice; an old negro was pretending to mow
the unkempt lawn with a sickle, but whenever the wet grass stuck to the
blade he sat down to examine the landscape and shake his aged head at
the futility of all things mundane. The clatter of the Special
Messenger's horse aroused him; at the same instant a graceful woman,
dressed in black, came to the edge of the porch and stood there as
though waiting.
The big gateway was open; under arched branches the Messenger galloped
down the long drive and drew bridle, touching the brim of her slouch
hat. And the Southern woman looked into the Messenger's eyes without
recognition.
Miss Carryl was fair, yellow-haired and blue-eyed--blonder for the dull
contrast of the mourning she wore--and her voice was as colorless as her
skin when she bade the trooper good afternoon.
All she could see of this cloaked cavalryman was two dark, youthful eyes
above the upturned collar of the cloak, shadowed, too, by the wet hat
brim, drooping under gilded crossed sabres.
"You are not the usual mail-carrier?" she asked languidly.
"No, ma'am"--in a nasal voice.
"Colonel Gay sent you?"
"Yes, ma'am."
Miss Carryl turned, lifted a small salt sack, and offered it to the
Messenger, who leaned wide from her saddle and took it in one hand.
"You are to take this bag to the Deal farm. Colonel Gay has told you?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Thank you. And there is no letter to-day. Will you have a few peaches
to eat on the way? I always give the mail-carrier some of my peaches to
eat."
Miss Carryl lifted a big, blue china bowl full of superb, white,
rare-ripe peaches, and, coming to the veranda's edge, motioned the
Messenger to open the saddlebags. Into it she poured a number of
peaches.
"They are perfectly ripe," she said; "I hope you will like them."
"Thank'y, ma'am."
"And, Soldier," she turned to add with careless grace, "if you would be
kind enough to drop the pits back into the saddlebag and give them to
Mr. Deal he would be glad of them for planting."
"Yes'm; I will----"
"How many peaches did I give you? Have you enough?"
"Plenty, ma'am; you gave me seven, ma'am."
"Seven? Take two more--I insist--that makes nine, I think. Good day; and
thank you."
But the Messenger did not hear; there was something far more interesting
to occupy her mind--a row of straw-thatched beehives under the fruit
trees at the eastern end of the house.
From moment to moment, homing or outgoing bees sped like bullets across
her line of vision; the hives were busy now that a gleam of pale
sunshine lay across the grass. One bee, leaving the hive, came humming
around the Cherokee roses. The Messenger saw the little insect alight
and begin to scramble about, plundering the pollen-powdered blossom. The
bee was a yellow one.
Suddenly the Messenger gathered bridle and touched her hat; and away she
spurred, putting her horse to a dead run.
Passing the inner lines, she halted to give and receive the password,
then tossed a bunch of letters to the corporal, and spurred forward.
Halted by the outer pickets, she exchanged amenities again, rid herself
of the remainder of the mail, and rode forward, loosening the revolver
in her holster. Then she ate her first peach.
It was delicious--a delicate, dripping, snow-white pulp, stained with
pink where the pit rested. There was nothing suspicious about that pit,
or any of the others when she broke the fragrant fruit in halves and
carefully investigated. Then she tore off the seal and opened the bag
and examined each of the twenty dry pits within. Not one had been
tampered with.
Her horse had been walking along the moist, fragrant road; a few moments
later she passed the last cavalry picket, and at the same moment she
caught sight of John Deal's farm.
The house was neat and white and small; orchards stretched in every
direction; a few beehives stood under the fruit trees near a well.
A big, good-humored looking man came out into the path as the Messenger
drew bridle, greeted the horse with a caress and its rider with a
pleasant salute.
"I'm very much obliged to you," he said, taking the sack of pits. "I
reckon we're bound to have more fine weather. What's this--some peach
pits from Miss Carryl?"
"Nine," nodded the Messenger.
"Nine! I'll have nine fine young trees this time three years, I reckon.
Thank you, suh. How's things over to the Co't House?"
"Troops arriving all the while," said the Messenger carelessly.
"Comin' in?"
"Lots."
"Sho! I heard they was sendin' 'em East."
"Oh, some. We've got to have elbow-room. Can't pack two army corps into
Osage Court House."
"Two a'my co'ps, suh?"
"More or less."
John Deal balanced the sack in the palm of one work-worn hand and looked
hard at the Messenger. He could see only her eyes.
"Reckon you ain't the same trooper as come yesterday."
"No."
"What might be yoh regiment?"
The Messenger was looking hard at the beehives. The door of one of the
hives, a new one, was shut.
"What regiment did you say, suh?" repeated Deal, showing his teeth in a
friendly grin; and suddenly froze rigid as he found himself inspecting
the round, smoky muzzle of a six-shooter.
"Turn around," said the Special Messenger. Her voice was even and
passionless.
John Deal turned.
"Cross your hands behind your back. Quickly, please! Now back up to this
horse. Closer!"
There was a glimmer, a click; and the man stood handcuffed.
"Sit down on the grass with your back against that tree. Make yourself
comfortable."
Deal squatted awkwardly, settled, and turned a pallid face to the
Messenger.
"What'n hell's this mean?" he demanded.
"Don't move and don't shout," said the Messenger. "If you do I'll have
to gag you. I'm only going over there to take a look at your bees."
The pallor on the man's face was dreadful, but he continued to stare at
the Messenger coolly enough.
"It's a damned outrage!" he began thickly. "I had a pass from your
Colonel----"
"If you don't keep quiet I'll have to tie up your face," observed the
Messenger, dismounting and flinging aside her cloak.
Then, as she walked toward the little row of beehives, carrying only her
riding whip, the farmer's eyes grew round and a dull flush empurpled his
face and neck.
"By God!" he gasped; "it's her!" and said not another word.
She advanced cautiously toward the hives; very carefully, with the butt
of her whip, she closed the sliding door over every exit, then seated
herself in the grass within arm's length of the hives and, crossing her
spurred boots, leaned forward, expectant, motionless.
A bee arrived, plunder-laden, dropped on the sill and began to walk
toward the closed entrance of his hive. Finding it blocked, the insect
buzzed angrily. Another bee whizzed by her and lit on the sill of
another hive; another came, another, and another.
Very gingerly, as each insect alighted, she raised the sliding door and
let it enter. Deal watched her, fascinated.
An hour passed; she had admitted hundreds of bees, always closing the
door behind each new arrival. Then something darted through the range of
her vision and alighted, buzzing awkwardly on the sill of a hive--an
ordinary, yellow-brown honey bee, yet differing from the others in that
its thighs seemed to be snow-white.
Quick as a flash the Messenger leaned forward and caught the insect in
her gloved fingers, holding it by the wings flat over the back.
Its abdomen dilated and twisted, and the tiny sting was thrust out,
vainly searching the enemy; but the Messenger, drawing a pin from her
jacket, deftly released the two white encumbrances from the insect's
thighs--two thin cylinders of finest tissue paper, and flung the angry
insect high into the air. It circled, returned to the hive, and she let
it in.
There was a groan from the manacled man under the trees; she gave him a
rapid glance, shook her head in warning, and, leaning forward, deftly
lifted a second white-thighed bee from the hive over which it was
scrambling in a bewildered sort of way.
A third, fourth, and fifth bee arrived in quick succession; she robbed
them all of their tissue-paper cylinders. Then for a while no more
arrived, and she wondered whether her guess had been correct, that the
nine peaches and wet pits meant to John Deal that nine bees were to be
expected--eager home-comers, which he had sent to his mistress and
which, as she required their services, she released, certain that they
would find their old hives on John Deal's farm and carry to him the
messages she sent.
And they came at last--the sixth, seventh--then after a long interval
the eighth--and, finally, the ninth bee whizzed up to the hive and fell,
scrambling, its movements embarrassed by the tiny, tissue cylinders.
The Messenger waited another hour; there were no more messengers among
the bees that arrived.
Then she opened every hive door, rose, walked over to the closed hive
that stood apart and opened the door of that.
A black honeybee crawled out, rose into the air, and started due
south; another followed, then three, then a dozen; and then the hive
vomited a swarm of black bees which sped southward.
Sandy River lay due south; also, the home-hive from which they had been
taken and confined as prisoners; also, a certain famous officer lingered
at Sandy River--one, General J. E. B. Stuart, very much interested in
the beehives belonging to a friend of his, a Mr. Enderly.
When she had relieved each messenger-bee of its tissue-paper dispatch,
she had taken the precaution to number each tiny cylinder, in order of
its arrival, from one to nine. Now she counted them, looked over each
message, laid them carefully away between the leaves of a pocket
notebook, slipped it into the breast of her jacket, and, rising, walked
over to John Deal.
"Here is the key to those handcuffs," she said, hanging it around his
neck by the bit of cord on which it was dangling. "Somebody at Sandy
River will unlock them for you. But it would be better, Mr. Deal, if you
remained outside our lines until this war is ended. I don't blame
you--I'm sorry for you--and for your mistress."
She set toe to stirrup, mounted easily, fastened her cloak around her.
"I'm really sorry," she said. "I hope nobody will injure your pretty
farm. Good-by."
Miss Carryl was standing at the end of the beautiful, oak-shaded avenue
when the Messenger, arriving at full speed, drew bridle and whirled her
horse.
Looking straight into the pretty Southern woman's eyes, she said
gravely:
"Miss Carryl, your bees have double stings. I am very sorry for
you--very, very sorry. I hope your property will he respected while you
are at Sandy River."
"What do you mean?" asked Miss Carryl. Over her pale features a painful
tremor played.
"You know what I mean. And I am afraid you had better go at once. John
Deal is already on his way."
There was a long silence. Miss Carryl found her voice at length.
"Thank you," she said without a tremor. "Will I have any trouble in
passing the Yankee lines?"
"Here is your passport. I had prepared it."
As the Messenger bent over from the saddle to deliver the pass, somehow
her hat, with its crossed gilt sabres, fell off. She caught it in one
hand; a bright blush mantled throat and face.
The Southern woman looked up at the girl in the saddle, so dramatically
revealed for what she was under the superb accusation of her hair.
"You?"
"Yes--God help us both!"
The silence was terrible.
"It scarcely surprises me," murmured Miss Carryl with a steady smile. "I
saw only your eyes before, but they seemed too beautiful for a boy's."
Then she bent her delicately-molded head and studied the passport. The
Messenger, still blushing, drew her hat firmly over her forehead and
fastened a loosened braid. Presently she took up her bridle.
"I will ask Colonel Gay's protection for Waycross House," she said in a
low voice. "I am so dreadfully sorry that this has happened."
"You need not be; I have only tried to do for my people what you are
doing for yours--but I should be glad of a guard for Waycross. His
grave is in the orchard there." And with a quiet inclination of the head
she turned away into the oak-bordered avenue, walking slowly toward the
house which, in a few moments, she must leave forever.
In the late sunshine her bees flashed by, seeking the fragrant
home-hives; long, ruddy bars of sunlight lay across grass and tree
trunk; on the lawn the old servant still chopped at the unkempt grass,
and the music of his sickle sounded pleasantly under the trees.
On these things the fair-haired Southern woman looked, and if her eye
dimmed and her pale lip quivered there was nobody to see. And after a
little while she went into the house, slowly, head held high, black
skirt lifted, just clearing the threshold of her ancestors.
Then the Special Messenger, head hanging, wheeled her horse and rode
slowly back to Osage Court House.
She passed the Colonel, who was dismounting just outside his tent, and
saluted him without enthusiasm:
"The leak is stopped, sir. Miss Carryl is going to Sandy River; John
Deal is on his way. They won't come back--and, Colonel, won't you give
special orders that her house is not to be disturbed? She is an old
school friend."
The Colonel stared at her incredulously.
"I'm afraid you still have your doubts about that leak, sir."
"Yes, I have."
She dismounted wearily; an orderly took her horse, and without a word
she and the Colonel entered the tent.
"They used bees for messengers," she said; "that was the leak."
"Bees?"
"Honey bees, Colonel."
For a whole minute he was silent, then burst out:
"Good God! Bees! And if such a--an extraordinary performance were
possible how did you guess it?"
"Oh," she said patiently, "I used them that way when I was a little
girl. Bees, like pigeons, go back to their homes. Look, sir! Here, in
order, are the dispatches, each traced in cipher on a tiny roll of
tissue. They were tied to the bees' thighs."
[Transcriber's Note: in the following cyphers, subscripted numerals
and special symbols are contained in curly brackets, like this: {3}]
And she spread them out in order under his amazed eyes; and this is what
he saw when she pieced them together for him:
    EIO{2}W{2} x I{8}W{3} {triangle} NI{7}W{3} x
      OII{6}I{5}W{3} x ENI{7}I{7}I{4}I{8}I{5}O{2}
    N x I{7}IE x I{4}O{2}I{2} x
    N x HI{5} x IO{2}E x
    N x O x E x WNW{3} x
    W x I{8}E{3}XHN {crescent} x
    L x I{3} O{2}XW{3}I{5}W{3}NW{2} x
    I{4}I{2} x I{8}W{3}I{7}I{4}LI x NW{3}x
    I{5}O{2}HI x O{2}I{4}EI{3}W{3} x
    HNI{7}I{7} {circle+} W{2}
"That's all very well," he said, "but how about this hieroglyphic? Do
you think anybody on earth is capable of reading such a thing?"
"Why not?"
"Can you?"
"All such ciphers are solved by the same method.... Yes, Colonel, I can
read it very easily."
"Well, would you mind doing so?"
"Not in the slightest, sir. The key is extremely simple. I will show
you." And she picked up pencil and paper and wrote:
    One
    Two
    Three
    Four
    Five
    Six
    Seven
    Eight
    Nine
    Ten
    Eleven
    Twelve
    Thirteen
    Fourteen
    Fifteen
    Sixteen
    Seventeen
    Eighteen
    Nineteen
    Twenty
"Now," she said, "taking the second letter in each word, we can parallel
that column thus:
    N equals the letter A
    W equals the letter B
    H equals the letter C
    O equals the letter D
    I equals the letter E
"Then, in the word six we have the letter I again as the second
letter, so we call it I{2}. And, continuing, we have:
    I{2} equals the letter F
    E equals the letter G
    I{3} equals the letter H
    I{4} equals the letter I
    E{2} equals the letter J
    L equals the letter K
    W{2} equals the letter L
    H{2} equals the letter M
    O{2} equals the letter N
    I{5} equals the letter O
    I{6} equals the letter P
    E{3} equals the letter Q
    I{7} equals the letter R
    I{8} equals the letter S
    W{3} equals the letter T
"Now, using these letters for the symbols in the cipher:
    EIO{2}W{2} x I{8}W{3} {triangle} NI{7}W{3} x
      OII{6}I{5}W{3} x ENI{7}I{7}I{4}I{8}I{5}O{2}
    N x I{7}IE x I{4}O{2}I{2} x
    N x HI{5} x IO{2}E x
    N x O x E x WNW{3} x
    W x I{8}E{3}XHN {crescent} x
    L x I{3} O{2}XW{3}I{5}W{3}NW{2} x
    I{4}I{2} x I{8}W{3}I{7}I{4}LI x NW{3}x
    I{5}O{2}HI x O{2}I{4}EI{3}W{3} x
    HNI{7}I{7} {circle+} W{2}
"We translate it freely thus, and I'll underline only the words in the
cipher:
    Gen'l Stuart (Sandy River?)
    (The present) Depot Garrison (of Osage Court House is)
    One Reg(iment) (of) Inf(antry)
    One Co(mpany of) Eng(ineers)
    One Four G(un) Bat(tery)
    Two Sq(uadrons) (of) Cav(alry)
    Eleven Hun(dred men) Total
    If (you) strike (strike) at once (and at) night!
    (Signed) Carryl.
"Do you see, Colonel, how very simple it is, after all?"
The Colonel, red and astounded, hung over the paper, laboriously
verifying the cipher and checking off each symbol with its alphabetical
equivalent.
"What's that mark?" he demanded; "this symbol----"
"It stands for the letter U, sir."
"How do you know?"
The Messenger, seated sideways on the camp table, one small foot
swinging, looked down and bit her lip.
"Must I tell you?"
"As you please. And I'll say now that your solving this intricate and
devilish cipher is, to me, a more utterly amazing performance than the
rebel use of bees as messengers."
She shook her head slowly.
"It need not amaze you.... I was born in Sandy River.... And in happier
times--when my parents were living--I spent the school vacations
there.... We had always kept bees.... There was--in those days--a boy.
We were very young and--romantic. We exchanged vows--and bees--and
messages in cipher.... I knew this cipher as soon as I saw it. I
invented it--long ago--for him and me."
"W-well," stammered the bewildered Colonel, "I don't see how----"
"I do, sir. Our girl and boy romance was a summer dream. One day he
dreamed truer. So did the beautiful Miss Carryl.... And the pretty game
I invented for him he taught in turn to his fiancée.... Well, he died in
The Valley.... And I have just given his fiancée her passport. It would
be very kind of you to station a guard at the Carryl place for its
protection. Would you mind giving the order, sir?... He is buried
there."
The Colonel, hands clasped behind him, walked to the tent door.
"Yes," he said, "I'll give the order."
A few moments later the drums of the Bucktails began beating the
assembly.
VII
THE PASS
Her map, which at headquarters was supposed to be reliable, had grossly
misled her; the road bore east instead of north, dwindling, as she
advanced, to a rocky path among the foothills. She had taken the wrong
turn at the forks; there was nothing to direct her any farther--no
landmarks except the general trend of the watercourse, and the dull
cinders of sunset fading to ashes in the west.
It was impossible now to turn back; Carrick's flying column must be
very close on her heels by this time--somewhere yonder in the dusk,
paralleling her own course, with only a dark curtain of forest
intervening.
So all that evening, and far into the starlit night, she struggled
doggedly forward, leading her lamed horse over the mountain, dragging
him through laurel thickets, tangles of azalea and rhododendron,
thrashing across the swift mountain streams that tumbled out of starry,
pine-clad heights, foaming athwart her trail with the rushing sound of
forest winds.
For a while the clear radiance of the stars lighted the looming
mountains; but when wastes of naked rock gave place to ragged woods,
lakes and pits of darkness spread suddenly before her; every gully,
every ravine brimmed level with treacherous shadows, masking the sheer
fall of rock plunging downward into fathomless depths.
Again and again, as she skirted the unseen edges of destruction, chill
winds from unsuspected deeps halted her; she dared not light the
lantern, dared not halt, dared not even hesitate. And so, fighting down
terror, she toiled on, dragging her disabled horse, until, just before
dawn, the exhausted creature refused to stir another foot.
Desperate, breathless, trembling on the verge of exhaustion, with the
last remnants of nervous strength she stripped saddle and bridle from
the animal; then her nerves gave way and she buried her face against her
horse's reeking, heaving shoulders.
"I've got to go on, dear," she whispered; "I'll try to come back to
you.... See what a pretty stream this is," she added, half hysterically,
"and such lots of fresh, sweet grass.... Oh, my little horse--my little
horse! I'm so tired--so tired!"
The horse turned his gentle head, mumbling her shoulder with soft, dusty
lips; she stifled a sob, lifted saddle, saddlebags, and bridle and
carried them up the rocky bank of the stream to a little hollow. Here
she dropped them, unstrapped her revolver and placed it with them, then
drew from the saddlebags a homespun gown, sunbonnet, and a pair of
coarse shoes, and laid them out on the moss.
Fatigue rendered her limbs unsteady; her fingers twitched as she fumbled
with button and buckle, but at last spurred boots, stockings, jacket,
and dusty riding skirt fell from her; undergarments dropped in a circle
around her bare feet; she stepped out of them, paused to twist up her
dark hair tightly, then, crossing the moss to the stream's edge, picked
her way out among the boulders to the brimming rim of a pool.
In the exquisite shock of the water the blood whipped her skin; fatigue
vanished through the crystal magic; shoulder-deep she waded,
crimson-cheeked, then let herself drift, afloat, stretching out in
ecstasy until every aching muscle thrilled with the delicious reaction.
Overhead, tree swallows darted through a sky of pink and saffron,
pulsating with the promise of the sun; the tinted peak of a mountain,
jaggedly mirrored in the unquiet pool, suddenly glowed crimson, and the
reflections ran crisscross through the rocking water, lacing it with
fiery needles.
She looked like some delicate dawn-sprite as she waded ashore--a
slender, unreal shape in the rosy glow, while behind her, from the dim
ravine, ghosts of the mountain mist floated, rising like a company of
slim, white angels drifting to the sky.
All around her now the sweet, bewildered murmur of purple martins grew
into sustained melody; thrush and mocking bird, thrasher and cardinal,
sang from every leafy slope; and through the rushing music of bird and
pouring waterfall the fairy drumming of the cock-o'-the-pines rang out
in endless, elfin reveille.
While she was managing to dry herself and dress, her horse limped off
into the grassy swale below to drink in the stream and feed among the
tender grasses.
Before she drew on the homespun gown she tucked her linen map into an
inner skirt pocket, flat against her right thigh; then, fastening on the
shabby skirt, she rolled up her riding habit, laid it with lantern,
revolver, saddle, bridle, boots, and bags, in the hollow and covered all
over with heaps of fragrant dead leaves and branches. It was the best
she could do, and the time was short.
Her horse raised his wise, gentle head, and looked across the stream at
her as she hastened past, then limped stiffly toward her.
"Oh, I can't stand it if you hobble after me!" she wailed under her
breath. "Dearest--dearest--I will surely come back to you.
Good-by--good-by!"
On the crest of the ridge she cast one swift, tearful glance behind.
The horse, evidently feeling better, was rolling in the grass, all four
hoofs waving at the sky. And she laughed through the tears, and drew
from her pockets a morsel of dry bread which she had saved from the
saddlebags. This she nibbled as she walked, taking her bearings from the
sun and the sweep of the southern mountain slopes; and listening, always
listening, for the jingle and clank of the Confederate flying battery
that was surely following along somewhere on that parallel road which
she had missed, hidden from her view only by a curtain of forest, the
width of which she had no time to investigate. Nor did she know for
certain that she had outstripped the Confederate column in the race for
the pass--a desperate race, although the men of that flying column,
which was hastening to turn the pass into a pitfall for the North, had
not the faintest suspicion that the famous Special Messenger was racing
with them to forestall them, or even that their secret was no longer a
secret.
In hot haste from the south hills she had come to warn Benton's division
of the ambuscade preparing for it, riding by highway and byway, her
heart in her mouth, taking every perilous chance. And now, at the last
moment, here in the West Virginian Mountains, almost within sight of the
pass itself, disaster threatened--the human machine was giving out.
