and, still standing on her hind feet, awaited 
his orders. 
Many of Trixy's performances were ele- 
mentary ; but some were worthy of a larger 
stage. Trixy was better educated than her 
master, and experienced the disadvantage of 
the more alert intelligence leashed into a
subject condition. She tripped with enthusiasm 
through her little repertoire. She was a dead 
dog ; she rolled over ; she said her prayers ; 
she played leap-frog ; she teetered on a board 
across the clothes-horse ; she was blindfolded 
and found the squeak-chicken in Mr. Sur- 
bridge's coat pocket. She dove through the 
waste-paper basket like a ballet dancer through 
a paper hoop. She did a dozen clever things 
with the rubber balls ; she turned a back 
somersault on her master's hand ; she took the 
feather duster in her arms, walked jauntily 
down the aisle, and deposited it in Mrs. Percy 
B. Jeffries's horrified lap. Perceiving that 
lady's discomfiture, Trixy proceeded by way 
of consolation to dust her off. 
After this episode, which was received by 
the audience with marked applause, Dan 
dressed Trixy up in a little white tulle-covered 
dress, with a shirt waist and hat. 
" Now, ladies and gentlemen," said Dan, 
" you will be treated to the only performance 
of the kind in the world. This alone is worth 
your money. Miss Trixy is the only trained 
dog in the United States who can sing soprano 
to a gent's tenor." 
 
Trixy stood on the table in her fluffy dress, 
one paw lightly resting on Dan's shoulder. 
Her eyes sought his eagerly for orders, but 
they began to have their elfish expression, 
and Dan felt a little uneasy. He never was 
sure of her — never, and he hurried the 
performance along. 
The lad now began to sing. He had a 
sweet voice, untaught and immature, and 
sang not without real effect, something in 
this manner : 
In kind or cruel weather, 
We have traveled on together ; 
She and I. 
Whate'er the skies above her, 
She 's my lady, and I love her. 
Who knows why ? 
She 's my lady, 
And I 'll love her 
Till I die. 
As Dan sang this ditty to a pretty tune, 
Trixy, with a sentimental manner, lifted up 
her voice and joined in the strain, singing 
from beginning to end. There was a curious 
concord between the voices of the boy and 
the dog. It was that of love rather than that 
 
of music ; one hardly knew whether to laugh 
or to cry. 
After this Dan put Trixy through a little 
skirt dance, which he prefaced in the 
following: manner : 
"Ladies and gentlemen, you've all heard 
of Adeline Patty. It costs a thousand dollars 
to see her dance. None of us have, unless 
the front row. But Trixy, she 'll dance any- 
wheres, any time, for ten cents a head. You 
see her now, ladies and gentlemen, a little dog 
in child's clothes; but you wouldn't
understand mebbe as well as I do — that really, 
Trixy is a child in dog's clothes. She will 
now proceed to give the last performance of 
the evening." 
When the little dance was over Dan added 
an impromptu feature of the entertainment. 
" Trixy," he said, " go down into the au- 
dience and find the lady you love the best." 
Trixy obeyed with alacrity, but the elf look 
had come into her eyes again. She tripped 
down the aisle on her hind feet. Mockingly 
she paused before Cady's Molly, flinging as 
she did so a roguish glance at her master. 
The audience had grown very still. Dan did 
 
not interfere. After a moment's hesitation 
Trixy turned her back on Molly, walked to 
Miss Lauriat, sprang into her lap, and put 
both paws around the young lady's neck. 
Tumultuous applause attested the popularity of 
the dog's choice. 
Cries came from different parts of the 
room : 
" Speech ! Speech ! The Lady ! The Lady ! " 
Mrs. Percy B. Jeffries bit her lips; but 
Miss Lauriat graciously responded. It was 
not the first time she had been on the plat- 
form of that hall, and had helped the people's 
entertainments. They all loved her, and she 
knew it. She was quite at home with them. 
With the little dog clinging to her neck, 
white against her black dress, Miriam went 
up and stood beside the crippled lad. In that 
dull place she was a radiant being. She illu- 
mined the dark background of that paltry 
stage as she had illumined the dark lives 
which found their best — perhaps their purest 
— pleasures in amusements such as this. 
For a moment she stood there smiling, the 
little creature cuddling in her neck — both 
silent. The face of the dog could not be 
 
seen, and its child's dress and infantile 
attitude gave a strange impression, as if some 
new Madonna, gently owning her kinship to 
the subject races, had arisen to protect them. 
At first, Miriam thought she would have 
said a few words, but the cold eyes of Olin 
Steele were fixed upon her. Something in 
their expression deterred her ; she could not 
have said why. She felt a little chilled, as 
if he did not approve of her position. She 
bowed, and gave the dog back to Dan. 
But the audience, rinding that there was to 
be no speech from Miss Lauriat, and unwill- 
ing to be cheated out of their rights and 
privileges in the lady, thronged towards the 
platform. 
Philip Surbridge, however, was there first. 
His face was warm with sympathy. The finer 
meaning of that evening's scene appealed to 
every fibre in his being. He felt it all with 
her. He felt it all for her. He grasped her 
hand with the enthusiasm of a boy and the 
reverence of a man. 
" You have done a beautiful thing," he 
said, " and I honor you for it ! " 
He stood beside her for a moment, in a pro- 
 
tecting attitude, like a brother's, between her 
and the people who were hurrying up the steps. 
" Thank you, Phil," she said in a low voice. 
" But I Ve got to shake hands with them. It 
would break their hearts if I didn't. Speak 
to Dan, please, and then we 'll go." 
" Dan," said Surbridge, " if ever you and 
Trixy want a friend, count on me." 
He held out his hand heartily, first to Dan, 
and then to the pretty dog. Then Dan put 
on Trixy's blue coat (it was embroidered with 
her name) lest she should take cold after the 
excitement of the performance, and led the 
little actress away. 
Professor Steele did not come up with the 
remainder of Miss Lauriat's party. He stood 
for a moment watching her, while fifty people 
grasped her delicate hand. Cady's Molly's 
father was one of them. The scene was for- 
eign to Olin's experience. He had experi- 
mented upon the poor ; he had meant to be 
kind to them ; sometimes he had cured them ; 
but he had not been their friend. He was by 
no means sure that he wanted to be, or 
wanted her to be. He envied the look of gen- 
uine appreciation on Surbridge's face — that 
 
spontaneous sympathy with this extraordinary 
situation. Deterred by a discomfort in him- 
self which he did not understand, the doctor 
took his hat and left the hall. 
As he went downstairs, he heard some young 
people moving out behind him, humming : 
She 's my lady, and I love her. 
Who knows why ? 
He waited outside, pacing up and down 
Blind Alley, till the rest of the party should 
come out. Most of Miriam's guests returned 
as they had come, by carriage or by trolley. 
But a few preferred to walk, and among these, 
Steele, who had rather obviously offered his 
escort to Mrs. Jeffries, noticed Miss Lauriat 
and her lawyer. 
Surbridge and Miriam walked on for a few 
moments without talking. Then Miriam said 
carelessly : 
"It was nice of Dr. Steele to look after 
Auntie. She appreciates that kind of thing." 
" Perhaps I ought to have " — Philip spoke 
in a nettled tone. 
" She would have preferred you, of course," 
interrupted Miriam. " She reveres Dr. Steele, 
but she loves you." 
 
" Reveres Olin Steele ? " 
"That was her word," said Miriam, with 
mischief in her eyes. 
" But I thought you wanted to walk home," 
protested Surbridge. 
" I did," returned Miriam quietly. " It was 
so stuffy in there. I wanted the air." 
" Well, then ! " cried Surbridge. 
" Don't be cross, Phil ! " said Miriam. 
Philip received this little sisterly speech as 
a matter of course. He and Miriam had been 
on quite comfortable terms since they went to 
dancing school together. He smothered his 
flitting pique, and began to talk about Dan 
and Trixy. " I 'd rather have seen that than 
grand opera," he said heartily. 
" You do care, don't you ? " said Miriam. 
" So few people do." 
" He 's a poor little chap," continued Philip, 
"and he's got a remarkable dog. And as 
for you " — He broke off. 
"Yes, I know," said Miriam contentedly. 
" We are apt to like the same things. How 's 
your practice, Phil ? " 
" Oh, I 've just been retained by the News- 
boys' Association." 
 
" You take too many charity cases. You 
are quixotic and — and — splendid, Phil. 
You 'll never get rich that way." 
" I never expect to get rich." The young 
lawyer spoke quickly, and a little defiantly. 
" Oh, well, that 's quite immaterial," re- 
turned Miriam, with the indifference to an 
income felt by a girl who had never expe- 
rienced the want of one. " Nobody likes you 
the less for it." 
"You are very good to say so," replied 
Surbridge ; he took the tone of a man who 
does not propose to dip below the surface. 
" By the way, I wonder why Steele didn't 
speak to you to-night ? " 
" I didn't feel like it, and I presume he 
didn't," answered Miriam. " I think he dis- 
approved of what I did." 
" What business is it of his ? " flashed Sur- 
bridge. 
"Not any," returned Miriam very slowly. 
" That is — well, no — not any. All the same, 
he 's the kind of man who makes you feel as 
if he thought it loere his business." 
" That doesn't lessen the cheek," persisted 
Philip. 
 
" He 's always very courteous," observed 
Miriam coldly. " He is a perfect gentleman. 
I 'm sure you 'll admit that he 's eminent in his 
profession. Auntie has taken a fancy to him." 
" And you ? " asked Surbridge. 
In the darkness he could see her lift her 
chin with a little haughty motion that she 
rarely made. 
" I have seen something of him," she re- 
plied evasively. " Auntie invites him a good 
deal. He is president of one of those ani- 
mal things that she 's director of. It 's the 
S. P. D. & C. T. & E." 
" What in the name of — mercy — is the 
S. P. D. &C. T. &E.?" 
" The Society for the Prevention of Dock- 
ing and Cropping Tails and Ears," said Miriam 
demurely. 
" Olin Steele president of a society for — 
Oh, Lord ! Oh, Lord ! " Surbridge groaned 
with half -choked laughter. 
" I cannot imagine why you find it so 
funny," answered Miriam severely. 
Philip sobered instantly. " Shall I beg your 
pardon ? " 
" Not for the world ! " cried Miriam, re- 
 
gaining her good nature. " I suppose they 'll 
be waiting for us," she added in a different 
tone. Surbridge made no reply, but he quick- 
ened his pace. 
When they came into the brightly lighted, 
laughing house most of Miriam's guests had 
preceded them. Dr. Steele, without manifest 
intrusion, seemed subtly to claim her, and 
Philip quickly gave way to an indefinable 
something — whether an acquaintance or a 
friendship he could not determine — which 
he felt existed between the two. 
They did not seem to talk much ; which to 
the lawyer's mind was the gravest symptom. 
Miriam had an absorbed and sweet expres- 
sion ; this deepened slowly into an exhilarated 
beauty. As for the man's face, Surbridge could 
not watch it, and turned away. 
" Tell me what you are thinking," demanded 
Olin Steele, in the commanding tone which it 
was his private belief that women liked ; for 
her happy face had suddenly fallen. 
" I am repenting," replied Miss Lauriat, 
without a smile. 
" Be all my sins remembered ! " exclaimed 
the doctor in a deep voice. Miriam glanced 
 
up gravely. Half attracted, half repelled, she 
seemed to stir and sway upon her steady feet. 
"I am thinking," she sighed, "that I for- 
got to invite Dan and Trixy to come and get 
some ice cream." 
But Dan and Trixy were blessedly beyond 
the need of ice cream, viewed either as a con- 
scious loss or as a possible possession. In the 
lad's closet bedroom, across the entry from 
Cady's Molly's father's, the two were drowned 
in the blissful sleep of the tired and success- 
ful wage-earner. They had reached the deeps 
below the waves. Memory and forecast had 
passed them by ; trouble was not, nor hunger, 
nor cold ; homelessness and orphanage, de- 
formity and helplessness, had overlooked these 
waifs of fortune. Trixy dreamed of her audi- 
ence ; but Dan did not dream at all. He was 
too tired. Trixy lay on the foot of his cot, 
covered with a ragged coat of her master's — 
for the little actress was of a delicate race. 
Twenty times a night Dan's thin hand stole 
down and covered Trixy up. Dan knew that 
he loved Trixy better than she loved him, but 
he loved none the less for that. 
 
Miriam Lauriat was not a new woman. She 
had no career, and she had never wanted one. 
By birth and training she inclined to accept 
the existing, and clung to the traditions of her 
class. But with these she often found her 
nature contending. On the map of her being 
were large, unexplored spaces, arctic and tor- 
rid. She did not know whether she were more 
afraid of or more unable to traverse these. 
Most of the affections of life had reached 
her only by induction. She had felt deeply, 
but not often, and her tenderness had been 
touched through her sympathies. She had 
loved but two beings : her father, and one 
other. 
She had experienced society. But now she 
remained on the bank, and the rapids flowed 
by her. The torrent had really never inter- 
ested her, and she turned from it to philan- 
thropy as women of noble and unoccupied 
hearts are apt to do. 
Miriam had highly developed in herself the 
passion for humanity. The wants, the woes, 
the joys of denied and overlooked people, had 
become the important events in her life. The 
human element, which demanded everything 
 
and could give nothing, absorbed her leisure 
vitality. She had given much happiness and 
had received some. Incidentally she was be- 
loved by the objects of her bounty, but this 
fact, which is so often an end in itself to a 
lonely and tender-hearted woman, had received 
from her no concentrated attention. 
Indeed, there were times when she was 
forced to admit to herself that Blind Alley 
did not satisfy the heights and depths of her 
nature. This was a confusing admission to a 
woman who, believing herself a primary color, 
was in fact a prism. Miriam had that versatility 
of temperament that is so bewildering in 
youth, and so satisfying in later life. She 
found in herself a capacity for doing or being 
a variety of things, which presented itself to 
her sometimes as a misfortune or even a fault, 
and at others as a source of strength. 
She vibrated between the extremes of her 
nature, and wondered that she had neither 
content nor rest. She allowed herself forays 
into untried powers. Now and then she wrote 
verses. Under pen-names, which she changed 
often for fear of identification, she occa- 
sionally contributed little stories or essays to a 
 
newspaper or magazine. She had the love of 
color and form which may make an artist or 
an amateur. At present she was experiment- 
ing to learn which of these she was. When 
the new art school was opened within a few 
blocks of her house, Miss Lauriat joined a 
private class. For some months she had been 
working in pastel. 
It was perhaps a week after the little per- 
formance which Dan and Trixy gave at the 
Mooses' Retreat, that Miriam found herself 
hurrying up the broad steps of the art school, 
for her morning lesson. She was late, and 
her master was not a man to accept excuses 
from the rich. He received her with a frown, 
and indicated her subject curtly. It was a 
nocturne by Whistler. 
" I can do nothing with it, Signor," she 
said. " The sails look like crucified angels. 
Please give me something suited to my igno- 
rance." 
" I forgot," retorted the teacher, " the 
color scheme is above you. Try this, then." 
Smiling sarcastically he flung on the easel 
before her a large Arundel print of Fra An- 
gelico's Christ Transfigured. 
 
Miriam flushed, but went to work silently 
and solemnly. There were but few pupils 
in the large room, and the spot was still and 
inspiring. Near her stood a cast of Rodin's 
Pity. Beyond were the antiques, powerful 
and calm. Their strong influence pulsated 
through the place. But the Christ before her 
seemed to fill it. 
With a sense of awe, Miriam sketched in the 
sacred figure. The atmosphere of the room 
was almost religious. She felt herself pos- 
sessed by peace, and upheld by aspiration. 
While she sat, her head bent over her sketch, 
something flitted past the window and cast a 
light reflection upon her bowed face. Glan- 
cing up quickly she saw a white pigeon — to 
her sensitive imagination it looked like a dove. 
The bird fluttered from window to window, 
and then drifted away. At this moment there 
came from the adjoining building a sound 
which startled Miriam to her feet. It was a 
long, piercing, piteous cry. It was the cry of 
a sentient being in mortal agony. It rose 
and fell, and rose again. 
Miriam dropped her crayon, and stood quiv- 
ering ; something in that agonized voice drove 
 
the blood from her heart. She went as white 
as the frightened pigeon. She stood as still as 
the statue of Pity beside her. Her eyes sought 
the face of the Christ blindly. The heart-rend- 
ing sound increased, and died away. What 
wound did it open in the girl's heart? She 
looked smitten and ashen. Her sketch fell to 
the floor. Panting and faint, she fled from the 
room. 
CHAPTER V 
Miriam ran out from the art school and went 
straight to the neighboring building. Through 
the inattention with which one treats famil- 
iar points of interest, she had forgotten that 
this was the Galen Medical School. The fact 
occurred to her now with no special signifi- 
cance. She listened for a few moments for the 
piercing sounds that she had heard, but there 
was no repetition of them. With the assur- 
ance of position, and the impulsiveness of her 
agitation, she went up the steps and spoke 
to a man (presumably the janitor) who was 
sweeping the vestibule. 
" I heard a dog's cries in here," she began 
hotly ; " he is in suffering somewhere. Go and 
find him ! " 
The man leaned with his chin on the 
broom, and regarded the lady with a blank, 
impassive face. 
" I don't understand you," he replied 
frostily. 
 
"I am sure of it," insisted Miss Lauriat. 
" It was a dog's cry of agony. I thought — 
the voice " — She broke off. 
" Probably, Miss, it was an accident in the 
street. Those blue cars often run over them." 
The sweeper leisurely resumed his occu- 
pation as if he had no interest in a subject so 
remote from his experience. " Excuse me ; it 
ain't very clean here for you, and the young 
gentlemen are just coming out." 
A cloud of dust puffed around Miriam as 
she turned. She felt as if she were being swept 
down the steps. At the bottom she stopped 
again, and looked up at the building irreso- 
lutely. Hovering high in the air she thought 
she saw the white pigeon that had tapped on 
the window of the art school. A very young 
student came out of the door at this moment, 
and ran whistling down. 
"Pardon me," said Miriam, with the tone 
and manner which instantly brought the hat 
from the young man's head, and the cigarette 
from his mouth. " Won't you tell me before 
the rest come out — I came here — I'm so 
disturbed — I heard distressing cries ! I came 
here to find out what they mean." 
The janitor — if he it was — had stopped 
sweeping and was closely watching the two. 
But the very young student, who stood with 
his back to this sub-official, frankly answered 
the lady's question. 
" Oh, it 's nothing of any consequence, 
madam. Do not disturb yourself." 
" But it was a dog ! " cried Miriam. " It 
sounded as if it were a little dog." 
" I know what that was," answered the boy 
candidly. " We are having some very pretty 
psychological experiments." 
" Oh," said Miriam, a little relieved, " that 
means mental experiments, doesn't it ? " 
" Certainly," replied the student pompously. 
" It means experimentation on the intelli- 
gence, the affections, and the will. One sub- 
ject is all we need for the purpose, and I 
assure you, madam, it never suffers." 
" Then I " — began Miriam with her charm- 
ing manner — " must have been mistaken — 
but" — 
At this moment a torrent of students poured 
from the door. Baffled and perplexed, Miss 
Lauriat turned away. 
She could not forget the incident, however. 
 
It pursued her painfully. She did not return 
to finish her pastel lesson, but went directly 
home, and shut herself up alone for the rest of 
the day. She was glad to have the house to her- 
self, and once a year this privilege fell to her. 
Mrs. Percy B. Jeffries, who, in common 
with many of her neighbors, found it conven- 
ient to change her legal residence on the first 
of May, had already been some ten days at 
the shore in Miss Lauriat's summer home. She 
was accustomed to say that she went in ad- 
vance to open the house for Miriam, and sus- 
tained the little pose even with her lawyer, to 
whom she had said plaintively, when Surbridge 
accompanied her to the safety vaults to cut her 
May coupons : " That child can't do such things 
for herself. She is absorbed. She is unpracti- 
cal. Those people down there are monopolizing 
all her youth. I wish you had never allowed 
her to invest a dollar in the slums." 
" Pardon me," the young attorney had 
explained, " you forget this was an inherited 
investment. My father was responsible for 
that, and I assure you," he added loyally, " it 
has proved an excellent one. She has nothing 
better ; and consider the usefulness of it. She 
 
makes a lot of people happy, and clean. Per- 
mit me, Mrs. Jeffries — these P. and Q. coupons 
are worth thirty dollars apiece. I wouldn't put 
them in the ink bottle, if I were you." 
" You have your father's manner, Philip," 
said Mrs. Jeffries sentimentally. "It is always 
a comfort to have you around. There
I 'll mind my P's and Q's to please you. Be 
sure and run down this summer as usual. We 
expect a good many pleasant people. Dr. 
Steele is coming out every Saturday. The 
S. P. D. & C. T. & E. is an important society, 
and we have to confer. I wish Miriam took 
more interest in it; but she doesn't care 
about the animal philanthropies. She says 
the human race is enough for her." 
It so happened that on the evening of the 
day when the episode at the art school oc- 
curred, a matter of business took Philip Sur- 
bridge to Miriam's house. She received him 
in the drawing-room. The windows were open ; 
the gas was low. The large room, which 
had gone into its linen shrouding for the 
summer, had a dismal, unfamiliar air. When 
Miriam paused before the gauze-covered mir- 
ror, it reflected her mistily, as if she had been 
a ghost. She seemed somehow unreal to 
Philip ; her body looked uninhabited like the 
house. When he explained his errand — it 
was some mechanic's contract — he saw that 
she was giving no attention to it. She as- 
sented indifferently to his suggestions, and 
sat with listless hands crossed over her black 
skirt. The evening was warm, and she wore 
a white silk waist, which Philip noticed be- 
cause it was so long since he had seen her in 
anything but mourning. She had an unusual 
pallor — perhaps a reflection from the ivory- 
tinted stuff into which her face seemed to 
melt, or out of which it seemed to grow. She 
was so unlike herself that Philip refrained 
from any unnecessary conversation, and with 
his natural delicacy quickly terminated the 
interview, and arose to go. 
" So soon ? " asked Miriam languidly. 
" You seem tired ; I think it 's better." 
" Wait a minute." Miriam uncrossed her 
hands slowly, and, rising, stood tall and still 
in the dim room beside him. He could feel 
how constrained she was. 
" Such a strange thing happened to-day," 
she began. She had not meant to tell him, 
 
nor to tell any one ; in fact, though she could 
hardly have explained why, she felt a poignant 
reluctance to repeating the experience of the 
morning. But she was used to telling things 
to Philip. She always had ; sometimes she 
suspected that most people did. He was that 
kind of a man. His presence in the lonely 
house (deserted now of the whole family ex- 
cepting the old seamstress and Maggie) inde- 
finably soothed her. Suddenly it seemed to 
her necessary to speak, and she told him the 
story. 
Surbridge listened in silence. As she 
talked, he crossed to the open window and 
stood with his hands in his pockets. 
" Go on," he said when she paused. 
" That is all," said Miriam with a sigh of 
relief. 
Philip turned away from the window and 
asked a few quiet questions, naturally enough ; 
but Miriam quickly detected the professional 
instinct beneath the personal sympathy. 
" You cross-examine ! " she cried. 
So Philip laughed and left her. Now, as 
he passed up the street, he came face to face 
with Dr. Steele. 
 
" By the way," said the lawyer carelessly, 
" may I walk a few steps with you ? I want 
to ask you about a certain matter." 
Philip retraced his way, and the two gen- 
tlemen walked back towards the house. Sur- 
bridge spoke in a low voice, and could not 
have been overheard by passers, but as the 
physiologist listened an expression of cold an- 
noyance stiffened his face. Before they came 
to Miss Lauriat's door he halted. 
" Why should I answer these questions ? " 
His lips sharpened. "I am not on the witness 
stand. You will excuse me, Surbridge." 
Surbridge laughed again — he had a sin- 
gularly quiet, pleasant laugh — and walked 
back. He had not gone a block when he ad- 
mitted to himself an unpardonable curiosity. 
He glanced around, and saw Dr. Steele com- 
ing away from Miss Lauriat's house. Plainly 
he had not been admitted. 
" Now," thought Philip, " what 's the mean- 
ing of that t " 
This question Miriam herself could not have 
answered. 
Dr. Steele plunged his hands deep into the 
 
water. He bathed them with something more 
than his usual scrupulousness, repeating the 
act a good many times. As he held his long 
and slender but strong fingers to the light, a 
slight shadow fell upon them from the window 
near which he stood — there was a coo, a whir 
— and some pigeons flew from the sill ; one, 
it seemed, was white. He glanced at it idly. 
The principal thought that it suggested to him 
couched itself in some such words as these : 
" Those Germans have done remarkably in- 
teresting work with the brains of doves." 
" Down ! " A raucous voice jarred from 
the adjoining room. " Down, I say ! " 
There was no mistaking the tone or the 
accent of his assistant. Somehow, it always 
grated on Steele, even now, and after all. He 
turned impatiently, and looked into the labor- 
atory. There, a picture, something new even 
to his wide experience, presented itself. 
A black spaniel of the cocker breed stood 
upon the table before which Bernard was sta- 
tioned. It must have been originally a very 
beautiful spaniel ; its scarred forehead was 
parted with white, and a white ruff like a 
shirt-frill stood out thickly from its breast. It 
 
had large hazel eyes, perhaps also once beau- 
tiful, but now, for reasons and by processes 
known only to these two men, the spaniel's 
expression had become mysteriously dulled. 
Yet a flicker of terror lighted it at the touch 
of Bernard's significant hands. At this mo- 
ment, when Dr. Steele looked up, the little 
creature had raised itself with difficulty, and, 
reaching up, put both arms around the ex- 
perimenter's neck. Bernard unclasped them 
roughly. The dog repeated the piteous ges- 
ture ; he did not cry nor whine, but with the 
inextinguishable trust and tenderness of his 
race entreated the man. But Bernard pushed 
the spaniel off. As he did so he fingered the 
dog-board greedily. 
Steele stood hesitating. The scene annoyed 
him — who should say why ? He had wit- 
nessed a thousand worse. It occurred to him 
that he had never seen that particular pose 
before. Perhaps another thought — but again, 
who could say why there should be any such 
thought? — at that hour, and in that place? 
" Let the dog be for to-day, if you please," 
he said with authoritative courtesy. " Give it 
a rest — for a while." 
 
" What 's the matter with you ? " demanded 
Bernard roughly. He dropped the spaniel 
(who, cowering from him, leaped from the 
table), and turned his sullen face towards his 
superior. 
" I'm going out of town," replied Dr. Steele. 
" I can't go on with these experiments to-day." 
" But I can," urged Bernard, with an evil 
expression. " Vacation 's the time for it — no 
students around." 
" Oblige me by regarding my wishes," per- 
sisted the professor. " I prefer to be present 
when these researches are continued. Send the 
dog back to its cage." 
"All right," answered Bernard, with his 
unpleasant smile. " I understand." 
The released spaniel, moved by God knew 
what impulse, stopped as it passed by the 
young professor of physiology, and tried to 
kiss his hand. An expression which could not 
be interpreted as one of pity, and which was 
far from indicating a sense of regret, but 
which might have been called a conscious- 
ness of discomfort, brushed the face of Olin 
Steele. 
He went directly out from the medical 
 
school, and hurried to the wharf ;. whence he 
took the boat for the familiar shore where 
Miss Lauriat spent her summers. 
The day was hot, — it was July, — and 
Steele, as the little steamer tossed along the 
coast, luxuriously turned his face towards the 
salt wind. He had spent all the morning in 
his laboratory, and felt that he had earned 
his holiday. A faint memory that he had seen 
it spelled another way tapped with muffled 
fingers at his barred imagination. The word 
had some time since gone out of evidence in 
the physiologist's vocabulary ; yet he might 
have said that this, if any, if ever, was holy 
day to him. 
White of soul and fair of body, the woman 
seemed to float through the summer air be- 
fore him, and without a glance, without a 
gesture, silent and maidenly, she drew him 
on. From sounds and sights which would have 
rent her with recoil had she dreamed of them 
in her darkest dream, he turned his hurry- 
ing feet to her, complacently. Red-handed he 
sought her ; iron-willed he hunted her. 
Yet a man who has ever known and cher- 
ished the nobler ideals is haunted by their 
shadows when- he has foresworn their sub- 
stance ; chat which was left of the high and 
the fine in Olin Steele was concentrated with 
a dedication in which there was something 
to be respected, upon his passion. On all 
the altars of his soid the sacrifices were con- 
sumed — only on this one, only for her, the 
fire burned. 
Halfway up the avenue to her summer home 
he met her slowly walking down. She was in 
white from head to foot — a foamy white, with 
ivory laces that stirred in the strong wind. He 
had not seen her dressed like this before, and 
marveled at the sublimation. 
Suddenly contrasting with her mourning 
black, there was a subtle suggestion in the 
happy dress at which his head whirled gid- 
dily. He did not, could not, would not help it. 
" There is something almost bridal about 
these beautiful white costumes," he said, with- 
out preface or apology, as he held out his hand. 
" Forgive me ! " he cried, when he saw the 
expression of her lifted face. It seemed in a 
moment to have fallen away from him, and 
the hand which she had extended heartily 
dropped from his. 
 
A dozen years ago Steele would not have 
said a thing like that ; it occurred to him as 
soon as he had spoken that there was a dif- 
ferent way in which he used to dream that he 
should woo a woman. His face flushed with 
mortification at his faux pas ; Miss Lauriat 
had never seen the doctor blush before, and 
she who winced from every evidence of pain 
in other organisms as if it had been her own, 
melted instantly into a sweet pardon of this 
man to whom she felt imperiously drawn, or 
by whom she was mysteriously disenchanted a 
score of times in every hour that they passed 
together. 
These, that summer, had been already 
many. She had treated him graciously, in- 
deed, with such cordiality that Olin's spirits 
had risen, and his courage with them. He 
needed both for a wooing in which the man 
found himself more at a loss than in any un- 
dertaking on which he had ever deliberately 
entered. Deliberate he was, and determined. 
He meant to win this woman ; and he had 
always done what he had meant to do. But 
she daunted him and taunted him. When he 
advanced, she retreated. When he retraced 
a step, she seemed to stand still. She was as 
elusive as fortune, and as alluring as mystery. 
When he loved her most, he admitted to him- 
self that he understood her least. 
" I thank you for forgiving me," he said 
in a tone so gentle that in another man it 
might have been called humble. This gave 
him an advantage which he was not slow to 
perceive ; adroitly he changed the subject at 
once, and they passed up the wooded avenue, 
chatting of little things. 
As they came in sight of the piazza where 
Mrs. Jeffries, with the expression and manner 
that she reserved for Docking and Cropping 
Tails and Ears, was waiting for them, a kitten 
blew around the corner of the house, head and 
tail slantwise, steering its way in the brisk sea 
wind. So running, it dashed against Miriam, 
and climbed up the lace of her dress. It was 
a maltese kitten, and around its gray neck 
was tied a broad pink ribbon. 
" Professor Steele ! " cried Mrs. Jeffries, 
getting heavily to her feet, " you are faint — 
you are ill ! What ails you, my dear friend ? 
What can we do for you ? What can I " — 
On the palette of her sentence the words ran 
 
together like gamboge and Prussian blue, and 
became a puzzled silence, which was a new color. 
For, at sight of the kitten, Olin Steele had 
blanched as a man does who is smitten with 
ill tidings. He stood staring, as if he saw 
some little animal ghost. When Miss Lauriat 
caressed the kitten and dropped it gently 
though not affectionately to the ground, it 
began to purr loudly. The sound reverberated 
in Steele's ears. It seemed to him to come 
from a great distance. 
He recovered himself quickly, made some 
sort of apology for a passing indisposition, 
and threw the matter off as lightly as it was 
now possible to do. 
" You are over- worked ! " said Mrs. Jeffries 
tenderly. " I revere the consecration of your 
profession, Dr. Steele. You shall not go back 
to town to-night. You are not in a fit con- 
dition to discuss the painful objects of our 
society. The S. P. D. & C. T. & E. can wait 
till you are in a less sensitive state. You shall 
stay and rest until to-morrow." 
With outward languor (as that of the con- 
secrated who is exhausted by devotion to 
sacred duties) but with an inward ecstasy so 
 
powerful that he dared allow no sign of its 
whirlwind to escape his dizzy heart, Dr. 
Steele accepted the invitation. He had now 
resumed himself completely. After dinner he 
hovered over Mrs. Jeffries and the affairs of 
the S. P. D. & C. T. & E. for a conscientious 
hour. Mrs. Jeffries was making the usual 
pudding of her papers, and Miriam occupied 
herself in suggesting that Mr. Surbridge 
ought to be made counsel for the society. 
" Nobody else can handle Aunt Cornelia 
when it comes to papers," she said, looking 
over her shoulder with that mocking smile 
which was the more enchanting because it was 
always unexpected, and clearly at a certain 
variance with her gentleness and sincerity of 
manner. 
Dr. Steele studiously concerned himself with 
what Mrs. Jeffries called " the literature " of 
the society. He separated the circulars on 
Docking from the pamphlets on Cropping 
with a slow and conscientious hand before he 
observed quietly : 
"I have the highest regard for Mr. Sur- 
bridge's professional abilities — there can be 
no two opinions on that. He is a growing 
 
man, and has a future beyond doubt. But I 
confess I have sometimes wondered how so 
young a lawyer came to be in the position he 
