Mr. Gartney's influence anything to do with it? 
She had admired him very much, there had been 
those sympathetic days when Elma was hovering 
between life and death. What if Juliet had fallen 
a victim to some evil fascination ! 
"You seem to have lost interest in your studies 
of late," Helen began one afternoon when Juliet 
said she had letters to write. "You surely never 
can give up graduating?" 
"Oh, no, nol" But her tone had a vague 
sound. 
"But you have fallen behind. And you seem 
so — so indifferent." Helen's tone was very em- 
phatic. 
"Would you be very much disappointed if I did 
not go to college ?" she asked gravely. 
"Disappointed I And when we have settled 
all our plans! And you have — " a sudden in- 
dignation flashed over Helen. Was she to be 
set aside for some whim! This friendship had 
grown so steadily, so surely, and was it to fail at 
this important epoch? 
"Oh, Helen I" Juliet cried beseechingly. "Don't 
look so resentful. I did not think you would 
care so much. And until the matter was set- 
tled—" 
The maid tapped at the door. "Letters," she 
said, "and an express package for Miss Cra- 
ven." 
Helen took hers. One was from Daisy and 
she opened it indifferently, but in a moment or 
two was lost in its contents. For Daisy had won 
her point at last. Mr. Duer was going to Cali- 
fornia on business and had petitioned so urgently 
for a marriage that it was to take place at once 
and to be a very quiet affair, just a church wed- 
ding in a traveling gown and an immediate start 
 
on the journey. And this was why no outside 
friends would be asked, but she should carry 
everybody in her heart and love them always. 
CHAPTER XV 
THREADS CROSSED AND TANGLED 
It seemed heartless to Helen, selfish to the 
last degree, not even to wait for Marjorie's mar- 
riage, which was to be at Easter, only about a 
fortnight later. She knew the mother's heart 
would ache. Ah, what was love worth ? 
"Daisy Bell is to be married — why, Thursday, 
to-morrow. And she had counted on such a 
grand wedding, but it is to be very quiet and 
she doesn't even wait for Marjorie. If the 
Newells had been in New York they would have 
had it there in some church and a reception. 
But Mr. Duer had to go to California. Well, 
the agony is over and no doubt she is happy. 
All the perplexing questions are set at rest. 
And here is a lovely epistle from Mrs. Wil- 
marth. You must read that." 
"I wonder if there will be time enough be- 
fore dinner to tell you part of my story." 
"Well — there is about twenty minutes," but 
Helen's voice was not very encouraging. 
 
 
"It is about Mrs. Howard. She has been in 
no end of trouble." 
"Oh I" Helen ejaculated. "There seems a good 
deal of trouble one way and another." Then she 
remembered she had not had any special difficul- 
ties and life had flowed smoothly. It seemed un- 
gracious not to take an interest in Juliet's other 
friend. 
"You see they have spent a good deal of 
money these last two years traveling about and 
having medical advice. And as she was alone 
the married son insisted that she should sell her 
house and come out to live with him. It is 
a delightful home up the Hudson, one of those 
beautiful residential towns where the grounds 
are like little parks. It enchanted me the sum- 
mer I was there. It seemed like Paradise, and 
it has always haunted me as the kind of home 
I would like to have. At first she thought she 
could not part with it. But she found she would 
not have sufficient means to keep it up, and she 
could not live there alone, so she had better let 
it go. But she could not think of going out to 
her son, I do not believe she fancies the wife 
very much. And she wondered if she could not, 
when we had settled upon our college, come and 
live in our vicinity where she could see us fre- 
quently. It is strange how many people are 
left solitary from various causes. Then a thought 
flashed into my mind. I'm not sure but it started 
from Miss Logan's plan of herself and her friend 
living together. I want a home. It grows upon 
me all the time. That is a woman's dream after 
all. So I proposed to buy the house. Mr. Davis 
is investing my surplus income in this and that, 
and why not in a house? Then that is so de- 
lightful. A splendidly large parlor with a beauti- 
ful porch in front of it; a library, sitting room, 
dining room and a pretty little den. It isn't so fine 
— I can't just describe it — homelike is the word. 
Of course Mr. Davis objected and made all man- 
ner of excuses. You know I've been of age for 
some time. So I just empowered Mrs. Howard's 
lawyer to open negotiations. I was dreadfully 
afraid I wouldn't succeed, but now I have. When 
the papers are made out I shall have a delightful, 
restful home, and you are to come to it when- 
ever you can. And as I can't live there alone 
and a young woman needs a chaperon I am to 
have Mrs. Howard. You would like her so 
much." 
"And you've given up college!" Helen could 
not conceal her disappointment. She was almost 
angry. 
"My dear Helen, I have wanted to talk of this 
for some time but so many things have inter- 
vened. And if I couldn't have had the house 
and Mrs. Howard — when you were away at 
Christmas I discussed the matter with Mrs. Al- 
dred, and we went over it quite thoroughly. You 
know she does not recommend that all girls 
should go to college. She thinks the woman who 
is capable of making a home is quite as indis- 
pensable as her learned sister. And I have no 
special ambition. I do not desire a profession, 
I do not care to teach. There are hundreds of 
women who must do these things, why should I 
crowd in ? And I am convinced that my ideal is 
a beautiful and happy home, open to those I like 
best and to those who need the rest and refresh- 
ment. It came to me vaguely on that first visit 
to Mrs. Wilmarth. There was an air quite dif- 
ferent from the other houses. It was partly 
money, though there was not any decided ex- 
travagance, it was largely taste and tact and dis- 
crimination, and above all a real love for home in 
spite of ill health and suffering. You saw it 
again with the Travis family. And there are 
lovely homes here in town. Why shouldn't the 
making of a good home be considered a good 
work?" 
Helen watched her friend with mingled emo- 
tions. The first was a sense of loss amounting 
almost to personal injury. Had she not taken 
her up when other girls stood aloof, had she 
not used her best efforts to combat the timidity 
that often betrayed Juliet into awkwardness? She 
had inspired her with courage, she had stood 
her friend, to a certain extent directed her ambi- 
tion. And they had been very dear friends. While 
Helen was too proud, too sturdily honest to 
accept benefits that she could provide for her- 
self even in a lesser degree, she had somehow 
relied on the friendship. How many girls were 
capable of it? She did not at that moment con- 
sider the immaturity of youth and the many side 
issues that tended to its development, the out- 
growing of girlish ideals just as the blossom 
pushes out of the sheath no longer needed for 
its sustenance. 
"Yes, I am disappointed," she returned proudly. 
Then as the dinner bell sounded she turned to 
the mirror, pulled out the ends of her fluflfy neck- 
tie, ruffled up her hair a trifle, and as two or 
three of the girls were passing smiled and nodded 
to them, and with Juliet joined the group that 
wended their way gayly down the wide stair 
case, chatting. 
 
Juliet was at the head of the table. Helen 
watched her with furtive glances. There was a 
quiet grace and dignity, and it seemed to her she 
had never seen just this aspect of self-reliance 
before, of ease and yes, attractiveness. She 
would never enter the lists of handsome women, 
but how few were really handsome! She held 
her head at a fine poise, she glanced fearlessly out 
of eyes that had lost their uncertain expression, 
her lips had settled in lines that suggested a 
smile. And suddenly Helen realized that her 
friend had passed the boundary line of crude 
girlhood. These years at school and with the 
companionship of trained girls and women had 
developed her into early womanhood. Helen had 
to admit vaguely and almost resentfully that it 
had not been all her influence or protection. 
She had been the leading spirit but she would be 
so no longer. 
It went to her heart like a stab. "Of course 
she doesn't really need me," her thoughts ran. 
And Daisy Bell had not needed her. Even Mrs. 
Dayton had given her up to the other influences 
with a kind of cordial readiness that hurt now. 
And Mrs. Wilmarth had a new friend. She was 
really not necessary to any one. 
And it sometimes happens to a very well bal- 
anced girl that a sudden wave of unexpectedness 
almost sweeps her off her mental poise. Her 
beliefs are attacked by doubts, her faith mys- 
teriously undermined. She is disenchanted 
with the fairy-like aspects of life that have daz- 
zled along the path and proved but a will o' wisp. 
And the stronger the girl the deeper hold the dis- 
trust seems to take upon her. 
When the girls rose from the table two or 
three had some matters to lay before Miss Cra- 
ven. They were eager as if asking advice. The 
light of interest illumined the plain face until 
it was fairly transfigured, and the eyes shone with 
a vivid light. 
Oh, yes, Juliet Craven would have plenty of 
friends. She had won place and position, she 
was really admired. She was rich, she could 
do and have what she wanted. And if she had 
this lovely home any of the girls would be glad 
of an invitation. She would never want for 
friends. In her unjust anger Helen saw the great 
gulf between them that divides rich and poor. 
She would probably squeeze through college with 
just enough, not anything for luxuries. No doubt 
there were many well-to-do girls in all colleges, 
and they would naturally affiliate. She would 
ask no odds, no friendships. She could stand 
 
quite alone. And then there would be years of 
teaching. For the first time it had a long, dreary 
look to Helen Grant. Mr. Warfield had grown 
captious over it, disheartened sometimes. There 
were stupid girls, frivolous girls, girls with no 
settled opinions, to-day one thing, to-morrow an- 
other, and this was the soil on which she was to 
work. 
She did not look on the other side, at Mrs. 
Aldred, Miss Grace and Miss Wiley. Just now 
she wanted the baldest and hardest to strengthen 
herself, she said. 
It was odd how the girls dispersed. The twins 
caught Juliet even before she was through with 
the older ones. Elma was not studying much, 
but she wanted to be in the classes and with her 
mates. And wouldn't Miss Craven take them for 
a walk? 
She stooped and kissed both. Helen's heart 
swelled with a touch of jealousy, though she 
wouldn't own that, would indeed have been 
shocked if she had been accused of it. She stood 
by the window nursing her dissatisfaction with 
all things. She was not glad of herself just now, 
though she had felt brave and strong in many a 
darker hour. 
"Oh, Miss Grant !" said a cheerful voice. "It's 
SO seldom anyone finds you alone. I really want 
to ask a favor. Miss Kent has gone to bed with 
a headache, she couldn't eat any dinner. And 
Fm in a mathematical difficulty. You have such 
a wonderful genius for figures. Do you know, 
I'd like to see your brain and what the involutes 
or convolutes — are those in the brain? are like, 
and how you reel off the diflferent things." 
Helen could not help laughing. She was sweet- 
natured at very foundation. 
"Or were you going to walk or take a turn in 
the gymnasium?" 
"Neither. If I can be of any assistance — " 
"Oh, thank you. I'm awfully afraid I shall 
not get through. Why, June will be here before 
we are ready for it. Kate, you know, has had 
so much discipline and practice. I'm only going 
to take the very plainest college course, and I 
shan't cry if I don't win a diploma." 
"Oh, why do you go?" interrupted Helen. 
"It's foolish, but you see I love Kate, and I 
haven't any other real friend. I'm afraid some 
astute fellow will persuade me to marry him if I 
stay on by myself." 
"But — if you cared for him — " 
"I don't ; that is, no one I have ever seen. And 
I'm so interested in Kate's career. Privately I 
 
mean to make her over, now that she has a 
chance. Don't you see she takes more pains with 
her hair, and Sunday she wore a white mull tie. 
Women of that stamp want a good deal of soft- 
ening. It didn't matter so much in our little old 
town where the women would have thought we 
had adopted French morals if we had dressed 
for dinner.. And she really did have to save every 
penny to pay for her mother's finery. Oh, I 
don't wonder she took such a disgust to it. Oh 
dear! Four years! But then we mean to have 
such a nice, cheery home; Kate will be doing 
the world's work and I'll do the home work." 
"I wonder you do not study nursing." 
Miss Logan made a comically wry face. 
'Oh, I've had enough of nursing. I couldn't 
endure it for steady company. But just a pretty, 
cheerful home with the books and pictures we 
like, and we'll get a nice-tempered nag, not too 
very old, and I'll drive Kate about, and the talks 
we will have, and the delights. That's going 
to giye me courage to wade through the four 
years. And I wonder if you and your friend will 
not join forces — " 
"Oh, no," interrupted Helen quickly. "I ex- 
pect to teach. I shall have spent my little hoard 
by that time," and her tone was very emphatic. 
"She is very rich, I have heard the girls say. 
There's something sweet about her, too, and her 
music is enchanting. How those twins adore 
her." 
"What was the puzzle," and Helen turned to 
the book. She could not discuss Juliet. 
It was very easy for the girl who knew how. 
They went on beyond the day's lesson. Girls 
were beginning to come in and there was a little 
chatter, but they soon settled to study. Miss 
Wiley was there to answer any puzzles. Then 
some of the girls begged that Miss Craven would 
play a little for them. 
Juliet assented gracefully. Why, she was a 
pervasive influence! Helen suddenly felt like 
quite a little girl beside her. There was almost 
four years' difference in their ages. Had she 
been trying to keep her to her own level? And 
was not Juliet capable of making her own de- 
cision as to what she cared most for in life? 
But to go on by herself when she had counted 
so much on this friend I She had not been deeply 
hurt by Daisy Bell's defection, but this did make 
life look dreary. 
There was a bright little talk, then they dis- 
persed for the night, but Juliet did not come up 
stairs at once. Helen really hurried to bed. It was 
 
almost eleven when Miss Craven came in softly. 
She lingered an instant at Helen's bedside, but 
made no sign. 
After being wakeful and tossed to and fro 
with different emotions, Helen really overslept 
and dressed in a hurry. Juliet appeared un- 
usually grave she thought, and she and Mrs. 
Aldred seemed in some very confidential rela- 
tions. Helen noted when she went to her room 
for something that several new books lay on 
Juliet's table. The top one was very dainty in 
white and gold, exquisitely bound. It was a book 
of poems by Mrs. Gartney, an elegant Christmas 
edition. Helen flushed with an undefined emo- 
tion, and her heart swelled within her. 
"If she does not want me to know — " but she 
was very unwilling to accept the consciousness. 
To be put off — shut out after these years of 
happy friendship was a more painful fact than 
she was willing to accept without a protest. Yet 
how to make it I 
The routine of study was tiresome to-day. Not 
that it required a great effort, she would be able 
to pass her examinations she was quite sure. 
She would get into college — there would be other 
girls to like and to have good times with. But 
she should never strive for friendship again. 
Perhaps her father was right about girls. 
That evening as she was crossing the hall Mrs. 
Aldred said to Juliet — "If the old adage is true 
no news is good news." 
Then there was a secret I 
The books had been put away without any 
comment. In their girlish intimacy they had 
shown each other gifts, had talked over little 
perplexities and pleasures. How strange it all 
seemed I 
Late the next afternoon Mrs. Aldred sum- 
moned Miss Craven. When she came to dinner 
Helen saw that she had been crying. Then she 
spent the evening in Mrs. Aldred's room. No 
one but Helen noted anything unusual. In the 
morning an announcement was made that startled 
the whole school. Mr. Gartney had died sud- 
denly the day before, the result of a critical opera- 
tion. An attendant was to come for the chil- 
dren. 
They hardly comprehended the tidings. 
"Are we coming back here?" cried Wilma in 
an eager insistent tone, "If we can't I will not 
go. I will not stay with that mamma. She 
does not like us. And oh, I like you so here !" 
She clung to Mrs. Aldred's dress with a dry 
sob of terror. 
 
"You will come back here, my dear children," 
said the soothing voice. "You are to live here 
henceforward. It will be only for a few days, 
and you must try to be good and gentle." 
She gave each a fond caress, but they clung 
convulsively to her and Miss Craven. Death 
was something they could not realize. 
CHAPTER XVI 
AN AWAKENED POTENTIALITY 
There was a general feeling of awe through 
the school. Mr. Gartney had been so devoted and 
so anxious about Elma after her accident that 
he had won golden opinions from the older pu- 
pils while the step-mother was wondered about. 
Mrs. Aldred had discouraged any gossip on the 
subject. He had seemed then in the flower of 
health. 
*'Yes," replied Mrs. Aldred in answer to some 
surmise, "the children are to remain here for 
several years. Mr. Gartney knew the serious- 
ness of the case and made arrangements for 
them." 
Miss Craven was excused from recitations and 
went to bed with a severe headache. After din- 
ner Helen came up stairs and found her dress- 
ing. 
"I want to go out for a walk. I feel much 
better. Will you go, Helen ?" in a wistful tone. 
"I shall be glad to." She thrust aside a little 
 
 
annoyance. Did the incident need to have all 
this sorrow and mystery lavished upon it? 
The days had grown longer. The air was de- 
licious. The maples were in their red blossom- 
ing, the willows were tossing about their misty 
bridal veils. Crocuses and daffodils were out 
and violets were showing blue in the velvety 
grass. Birds were still fluttering about, calling 
to each other, and the thrush seemed murmuring 
his farewell to the day. 
"Did you think it strange — " the voice broke. 
"That you cared for him ?" Helen would meet 
the issue squarely. 
"I was sorry." There was no rising flush in 
the face, no special kindling of the eye. "It was 
a cruel strait to be in. He loved his children, 
he loved his wife — she must have been fascinat- 
ing. Yet he had to stand between the two, and 
then to yield one to the other, to give up the chil- 
dren to some extent" 
"He should have been just. He was weak. He 
had no real courage," declared Helen point- 
edly. "The children were first and he had a duty 
to them." 
"It was a hard matter to adjust. They were 
mere babies when their mother died. As they 
grew older they had this nursery governess. 
Crocuses and daffodils were out, and the. violets were 
showing" blue in the velvety grass. 
The first event that called her to his mind was 
a little volume of exquisitely fine poems. Then 
they met and she was his ideal of a poet and it 
ended by their falling tremendously in love with 
each other and marrying. She was charming and 
made his home the envy of his friends. She 
thought it better that the children should go to 
school — she proposed a boarding school then, 
but he would not consent. They went to a 
day school in the neighborhood. They had 
their dinner early by themselves, for the Gart- 
neys were always having guests. And it came 
to him after awhile that she was very jeal- 
ous of them, that she kept them continually out of 
his way. She did not grudge them anything else, 
they were prettily dressed, they had little ex- 
cursions with the maid, but she did not like to 
have them about. Often he never saw them but 
a few moments in the morning, for when he came 
home at night they were in bed and she would 
not have them disturbed. When he found it was 
likely to destroy their harmony he consented. 
So they came here and they had a peculiar 
frightened air, like prisoners just let out. I do 
not think she was stern or cross to them. They 
are singularly alone. Their mother was an only 
child, and Mr. Gartney was a child by a second 
 
marriage, all the other children being much older, 
and now dead, except this half-sister where they 
went last summer, which was not a success. I 
think he suspected this trouble was serious when 
he was here, for he made arrangements with Mrs. 
Aldred to keep them until they were eighteen. 
They have some means from their mother's side 
which he expected to save for them. He spoke of 
the situation the night we were watching Elma, 
and it was done with the utmost delicacy. He 
knew the children would be happier here and de- 
velop more advantageously. He wanted them to 
have some love — " 
"And he asked that of you?" Helen was still 
resentful. 
"Why shouldn't I give something when so 
much has been given me? You came to me in 
my loneliness. Mrs. Howard has been a warm 
and interested friend. And Mrs. Aldred and all 
the others. Do you remember a package that 
came a few days ago? It was from Mr. Gart- 
ney. I want you to read the letter. A woman 
with more money than she knows how to spend 
ought to be of some service to the world. I do 
not want to live just for myself, just to cultivate 
the finer graces, to take the indulgences of for- 
tune. And with the letter came two books of 
poems, gathered from magazines. I've hardly 
had time to look into them." 
Helen felt the hot blood rush from her heart 
to her face. She had misjudged Juliet, no not 
that; she had been afraid of a temptation and 
there had been no temptation, only the purest 
pity. She had been jealous, too, of these chil- 
dren, motherless girls, and now orphans. She 
could not get over it all in a moment, and she 
felt somehow she had lost the first place in the 
heart of her friend. Did anybody care first for 
her? Her brain had a kind of desperate dull- 
ness as if the shade and melancholy of the ad- 
vancing years were destroying the brightness of 
girlhood when one hoped for and believed all 
things possible. Of course one couldn't go on 
forever in the glamour of childhood. You grew 
wiser, more experienced, you learned to judge 
more correctly. It was very unreasonable to sup- 
pose that life was going to be a path of roses. 
The sun was going down behind the hills. 
The air was growing cooler and giving out the 
fragrant odors of all new growths. From a 
group of trees at the end of one street that led 
to the little river came the song of the wood 
thrush that seemed to end with a mournful ques- 
tion — oh why? oh why? 
 
"We must turn about or we shall be late for 
dinner/' said Helen after some moments of si- 
lence. 
Juliet was a little chilled by the lack of sym- 
pathy. Helen had heretofore been so ready with 
that, and understood most matters so quickly. 
"Are you tired? You look so," Helen said 
with more solicitude in her tone. "Haven't we 
walked too far?" 
"My headache is mostly all gone. And I shall 
come in to dinner." 
Afterward Helen went to the study room and 
loitered with the girls. It seemed strange to 
her that she could be so bright and cheerful with 
such a heavy heart. 
She entered her room at length. Juliet had 
been looking over the books of poems. 
"They are exquisite," she said glancing up. "I 
was waiting for you. I want you to read this 
letter." 
"Do you truly? I shall not feel hurt," Helen 
replied from a sense of delicacy. 
"I want you to know why I have resolved to 
do a little kindly work for those really in need. 
And then I want to talk over my plans." 
The first page or two was about Mr. Gartney's 
impending trouble that he had mistrusted for 
some time, that had now increased rapidly, and 
that rendered death certain unless something was 
done. There was danger in the present step, but 
there was also the promise of hope. Life was 
very sweet to him. He had realized some of his 
ambitions and was on the eve of greater suc- 
cesses. He was not a rich man but it looked 
now as if fortune might smile upon him. For 
his children's sake, as well as that of his wife, 
he hoped to be spared. But if the worst came he 
had one favor to beg of her. He had made ar- 
rangements with Mrs. Aldred for the children's 
education, even if their mother's money had to 
be used at the last. What he desired for them 
was the love and Sympathy and guidance of an 
elder sister. She had been so kind to them and 
they adored her, could she add a little supervision 
in vacations when they tired of school life? He 
wanted them to know what a tender affection 
was like, and if she would sometimes talk of 
him and help them to recall the earlier years 
when they had been all in all to him and had the 
sole right to welcome his coming. "This is my 
earnest prayer," the letter went on. "There are 
very few I could ask this of, but I knew when 
you watched Elma's faint breathing and held her 
hands in love's clasp, warding off death if it were 
 
possible, you were one of the women whose heart 
was large and loyal and had room in it for gen- 
erous affection. So I have the courage to ask 
this from you if I have said good-bye to my dar- 
lings for the last time." 
"He did love them/' exclaimed Helen impul- 
sively. "But I can't imagine a woman not car- 
ing at all for such gentle, clinging little things 
who show their delight so plainly when one prof- 
fers them tenderness. Oh, it must have been bit- 
terly hard for him to know she would not, could 
not be a mother to them, I suppose it was jeal- 
ousy!" 
The tears of regret and shame rushed to 
Helen's eyes, for like a sudden shaft of light 
breaking through some confused space she 
seemed to be mysteriously enlightened about her- 
self. She had felt proud of her sense of justice, 
of giving good measure everywhere, but here she 
had been jealous and harbored a wicked, shame- 
ful suspicion. What if Juliet was to love some 
one better, if the other one could fill a higher 
niche! And these two children needed all the 
affection any friend might bestow upon them 
to make their path sunnier after the great cloud 
that had fallen upon it! 
"I think I do not quite understand jealousy 
myself, which Holy Writ has declared 'Cruel as 
the grave/ " returned Juliet. "I could be hurt 
by neglect, I could be filled with pain and long- 
ing if a friend for whom I cared sincerely had 
turned away from me, but I feel that I do not 
possess all the graces and fine qualities in my own 
nature. God doesn't give each one every good 
gift, and some of the longings are little seeds 
implanted in us that we are to nurse and cherish 
until they unfold and bloom. And since I could 
not attract every one I ought to be willing to 
have them cull a flower here and there that does 
not grow in my garden." 
"You shame me by your generosity," and 
Helen's voice broke while her eyes grew limpid 
with tears. "I am filled with self-reproach and 
regret that I should have grudged any one your 
regard." 
"If I thought I should lose sight of you al- 
together I should have courage enough to take 
the four years in college — " 
"No," interposed Helen. "I should not allow 
you to spend four years over matters that you 
are really not in love with for my sake merely. 
A successful college girl ought to be inspired 
with a love of study, an ambition to climb the 
hill tops and let nothing daunt. Of course all 
 
girls may not be as enthusiastic," and she smiled 
a little over her flight. 
"In a certain way I love study and I hope to 
go on learning all my life. But my heart craves 
something beside. I suppose my resolve seemed 
sudden to you, but I had been thinking it over 
and asked counsel of Mrs. Aldred. Something 
Mrs. Howard wrote when her loss was freshest 
moved me immeasurably. She said: *If I only 
had a daughter like you. Sons may be kind and 
you may feel proud of them but a daughter goes 
to your heart and you are no longer alone.' I 
fancy she idealized me;" and Juliet flushed and 
smiled. "But I fondly remember the interest she 
evinced when I think I must have been rather in- 
significant and unpromising. But for her I 
should not have come here to school, should not 
have known you and had these happy years that 
have opened to me vistas of true living." 
"Yes, I see that now. And she certainly has 
some claim. Fm not going to be selfish a day 
longer. I did not think I could be so ungen- 
erous ;" and the tears sprang to Helen's eyes. 
"Then came the trouble about the house. Sud- 
denly I felt as if I wanted a true home of my 
own, and some mothering, and both came straight 
in my way." 
"And I seem to have had some lovely mothers 
all along," said Helen with deep contrite feel- 
ing. 
"I hardly knew how to break this to you, Helen. 
I don't mean it shall separate us in the slightest 
respect. I shall have a lovely home and I want 
you to come to me as any sister would. You 
see you have hardly left girlhood and I have 
crossed the boundary of womanhood. Here are 
some delightful, satisfactory years unfolding be- 
fore me ; I want to be happy and useful ; to whom 
much is given much will be required, you know. 
I think it means money as well as other things. 
There are women doing grand and noble works 
in the world, and though I do not expect to 
emulate them, I may make a few people happy." 
Helen studied her in a sort of girlish surprise. 
She felt they had suddenly taken their rightful 
places. She had been the leader in many things ; 
so many of the decisions had been hers that she 
had hardly thought of Juliet planning for her- 
self, or really having force enough. 
"And then came this sorrowful episode about 
the Gartneys," Juliet resumed. "He confided 
part of his trouble to Mrs. Aldred when Elma 
was ill ; he had to explain why it was best not to 
take the child home for recuperation. And he 
 
half suggested that his own health was not to be 
depended upon. I do not know whether he could 
have placed matters on a better foundation in the 
beginning, but that is all ended now and specula- 
tion is fruitless. You know I have said more 
than once I was fond of growing girls ; I couldn't 
carry on a school, I have not Mrs. Aldred's 
discrimination in dealing with character and tem- 
peraments. And when these children were com- 
mended to my love I felt I might indeed be their 
elder sister. You see I shall not be able to spoil 
them during vacations, and Mrs. Aldred will have 
the real training of them. But I mean that my 
home shall be theirs and I want them to grow up 
loving me." 
"But if Mrs. Howard doesn't favor the plan?*' 
and Helen glanced up inquiringly. 
"I am sure she will not object. If she could 
take pity on an awkward, ignorant girl such 
as I was, she will have a warm sympathy for 
these children, who are really attractive when you 
come to know them well. And I am sure I can 
count on your indulgence ;" with a winsome smile. 
Oh, how generous you are, Juliet!" 
"But you see I make no sacrifice. Can that 
be called generosity? The pretty attractive home 
is for my pleasure, the thing I do really most de- 
Sire. And I want to bring to it the people I 
love, and the people who need love and pleasure 
and happiness. I want to make it a little oasis in 
the lives of some tired souls, so they can go on 
their way refreshed, and as I do not need a col- 
lege degree for this, I am anxious to begin. We 
will have our summer together and I shall want 
to keep watch of every step of your way and be 
proud of your successes. You make an abso- 
lute joy of study. Mrs. Aldred said in the winter 
when we had so many talks, that a school of 
girls like you, who were as honest, as ambitious 
and thorough, would be the most delightful work 
in life that she could think of." 
"Did she say that?" Helen's face glowed with 
pleasure. "Then I must be careful and live up 
to my reputation." 
"And now is it all explained? You see there 
were matters of which I could not tell the end 
from the beginning. And they might not have 
ended this way. But it was from no lack of 
love—" 
"And I really Tacked the trust. I am ashamed 
of the doubts that crept in. And in a way I 
certainly was jealous, and I just hate jealousy, 
too, it is such a mean, grudging vice. I think 
 
you have the most to forgive, I am sorry not to 
have you for my college chum — " 
"And keep prodding me up continually, lest I 
should fall behind," laughed Juliet interrupting 
her friend. 
"I can see that your choice is better for your- 
self and I will not be so narrow and self-con- 
ceited as not to admit it. But I shall miss you. 
I am finding out every moment how much you 
have been to me this last year." 
"I am glad if I have made any return for what 
you were to me at first. Oh, you with your hope- 
ful nature can hardly realize the dreariness and 
the longings of those first few months, unless 
it was that time you thought you would have to 
go away from all your friends to England." 
The tears glistened in Helen's eyes, remember- 
ing that time little more than a year ago. Out 
of that dismal time had blossomed this rich and 
happy year. Had she not something beside the 
cup of cold water to give? 
Yet after the lights were out and all was still, 
Helen thought of the change and wondered if she 
would make new friends as easily as she had 
heretofore. The four years of study did not 
look so glowing and enticing as they had. She 
wondered if she would consider it a necessity if 
she had Juliet's fortune. How little her friend 
had ever plumed herself upon itl 
"I do not believe I could have been so modest 
and unconcerned. Most girls were proud enough 
of rich fathers, even when there were more chil- 
dren to provide for, and hers was all her own." 
A day or two after in a leisure hour they looked 
over Mrs. Gartney's poems. They were of the 
intense school with perfect rhythm and most 
musical ; choice in their selection of words and es- 
caping the tendency to hopelessness that seemed 
to shadow so many of the younger poets. Through 
the most sombre rift came a gleam of light cheer- 
ing in its very unexpectedness. 
In the second volume were some Christmas 
poems of the Virgin and her babe that breathed 
the most exquisite mother love and watchful 
solicitude, and prefiguring the sorrow of the days 
to come. There was "Good night to a Child" 
that touched one with its tender pathos, and other 
little gems that went to one's heart. 
Helen had been reading them aloud. Some- 
times there were little breaks and halts in her 
voice for they did appeal strongly to her emo- 
tional nature. 
There was a silence of some moments, then 
Helen exclaimed indignantly — 
 
"She could have so much imaginary tenderness 
for dream children, and none for these to whom 
she was to fulfill the duties of real motherhood !" 
"Perhaps she did fulfill the outward duties." 
"But the inward grace surely was lacking. 
And it looks like a direct punishment. She 
crowded them out of their father's love and now 
God has taken him from her. I dare say she will 
write some most pathetic poems of sorrow and 
loss, and the world will say — 'How she loved 
him.' " 
"Which will be the truth. I suppose there are 
exclusive natures that can love only one person." 
"One person at a time," subjoined Helen with 
a touch of scorn. "And if we should keep up 
our knowledge of her we shall hear in the course 
of a few years that she is married again." 
Juliet felt it was not wise to gainsay this. 
After a week the children were returned to 
school robed in deepest mourning, and with a 
trunk full of new garments. Mrs. Gartney's 
letter was almost tragic. She thought it strange 
the children did not feel their loss more, she was 
simply overwhelmed, and she had only had Mr. 
Gartney barely three years. But she possessed 
a nature that suffered intensely, and her love had 
a depth that few could ever know. She had or- 
dered the children's wardrobe, the other gar- 
ments could be given to the poor. Mr. Gartney's 
business was in a sad state of confusion and he 
had died too young to amass much of a fortune. 
Whether there would be anything beside their 
mother's estate for them she could not tell at 
present. She would have no charge of the busi- 
ness. 
"She had better not have bought such expen- 
sive outfits for the children," Grace Aldred said 
to her mother. "It seems cruel to load them with 
it. Summer is coming and by next fall the frocks 
will be outgrown. I cannot bear to see children 
shrouded in such deep mourning." 
"They will wear white most of the time. Yes, 
it is really a waste," was the sensible reply. 
Wilma expressed her opinions with girlish 
vehemence. 
"I hate black frocks ! What makes you have 
to wear them? All my sorrow and pain is in- 
 side, in my heart, and just makes it harder to 
look at the black things. I told mamma I didn't 
want them and she said I was a heartless little 
girl. I'm so glad we shall not have to live with 
her, and I am sure papa must be happier in 
heaven." 
"What a pity children's hearts should carry 
 
such a remembrance of dislike/' Juliet said with 
a sigh. "Of course they hardly realize their 
loss, they have seen so little of him the past 
year." 
"And they will be comforted." Helen glanced 
up at her friend. "I could almost envy them 
these years with their big sister, if I didn't mean 
to have a full sisterhood myself. They will have 
to take the school terms, so I shall not be jealous, 
only they will be here for Mrs. Aldred to mother, 
and I shall not find any mother in college walls." 
"But you have that sweet Mrs. Bell. And I 
will give you a share in my Mrs. Howard if you 
like." 
Helen smiled. They were warm friends again 
but on quite a different basis. Every day she 
discerned some new strength in Juliet, a womanly 
grace and tenderness. The girlish timidity seemed 
to have dropped away like a garment. 
There were no regular holidays at Easter, 
which this year was late. Mrs. Howard came 
to make Miss Craven a little visit and talk over 
plans. 
Helen did not wonder that the shy, unformed 
girl had been charmed with her. She was not 
specially handsome, but the sweetness and serene 
grace attracted one at once. Her refinement was 
ingrained in her very nature, something nice and 
delicate and sweet that seemed to suggest the 
fragrance of violets. It had not been worn 
threadbare here and there by her two years of 
waiting on an invalid, and though he had grown 
irritable by the continual failure of hopes for re- 
covery, she remembered the earlier days of his 
