their pipes in their mouths; but they had an odd habit of being about
when she passed. An occasional party of German students, who are the
only real Bohemians left to the world in these days of progress, went
sentimentally mad about her for twenty-four hours, and planned serenades
in her honour which did not come off. A fashionable Italian composer
dedicated a song to her, and Marcello asked him to dinner, for which he
was more envied by the summer colony than for his undeniable talent. The
Anglican clergyman declared that he would preach a sermon against her
wickedness, but the hotel-keepers heard of his intention and
unanimously requested him to let her alone, which, he did, reluctantly
yielding to arguments which shall remain a secret. A certain Archduchess
who was at Saint Moritz and was curious to see her adopted the simple
plan of asking her to tea without knowing her, at which Marcello was
furious; a semi-imperial Russian personage unblushingly scraped
acquaintance with Marcello and was extremely bland for a few days, in
the hope of being introduced to Regina. When he found that this was
impossible, he went away, not in the least disconcerted, and he was
heard to say that the girl "would go far."

Regina would have been blind if she had not been aware that she
attracted all this attention, and as she was probably not intended by
nature for a saint, she would have been pleased by it if there had been
room in her thoughts for any one but Marcello--even for herself.

She walked far up the road, and after the first mile or two she met no
one. At that hour the people who made excursions were already far away,
and those who meant to do nothing stayed nearer to Pontresina. She grew
tired of the road after a time. It led straight to the foot of the
glacier, and she was not attracted by snow and ice as northern people
are; there was something repellent to her in the thought of the
bleakness and cold, and the sunshine itself looked as hard as the
distant peaks on which it fell. But on the right there were rocky spurs
of the mountains, half covered with short trees and brilliant with wild
flowers that grew in little natural gardens here and there, not far
below the level of perpetual snow. She left the road, and began to climb
where there was no path. The air was delicious with the scent of flowers
and shrubs; there were alp-roses everywhere, and purple gentian, and the
little iva blossom that has an aromatic smell, and on tiny moss ledges
the cold white stars of the edelweiss seemed to be keeping themselves as
far above reach as they could. But she climbed as lightly as a savage
woman, and picked them and sat down to look at them in the sunshine.
Just beyond where she rested, the rock narrowed suddenly to a steep
pass, within which were dark shadows. People who do not attempt anything
in the way of ascending peaks often wander in that direction in search
of edelweiss, but Regina fancied that she was sure to be alone as long
as she pleased to stay.

If she had not been sure of that she would not have taken off her left
shoe to shake out some tiny thing that had got into it and that annoyed
her. It turned out to be a bit of pine-needle. It was pleasant to feel
her foot freed from the hot leather and resting on the thick moss, and
so the other shoe came off too, and was turned upside down and shaken,
as an excuse, for there was nothing in it, and both feet rested in the
moss, side by side. She wished she could take off her stockings, and if
there had been a stream she would have done it, so sure was she that no
one would disturb her, up there amongst the rocks and ever so far from
Pontresina. It would have been delightful to paddle in the cold running
water, for it was much hotter than she had ever supposed that it could
be in such a place.

She took off her straw hat, and fanned herself gently with it, letting
the sunshine fall full upon her thick black hair. She had never owned a
hat in her life till she had been installed in the little house in
Trastevere, and she hated the inconvenient things. What was her hair
for, if it could not protect her head? But a straw hat made a very good
fan. The air was hot and still, and there were none of those thousand
little sounds which she would have heard in the chestnut woods above
Frascati.

A little cry broke the silence, and she turned her head in the direction
whence it came. Then she dropped her hat, sprang to her feet, and ran
forwards, forgetting that she had no shoes on. She saw a figure clinging
to the rocks, where they suddenly narrowed, and she heard the cry again,
desperate with fear and weak with effort. A young girl had evidently
been trying to climb down, when she had lost her footing, and had only
been saved from a bad fall because her grey woollen frock had caught her
upon a projecting point of granite, giving her time to snatch at the
strong twigs of some alp-roses, and to find a very slight projection on
which she could rest the toe of one shoe. She was hanging there with her
face to the rock, eight or ten feet from the ground, which was strewn
with big stones, and she was in such a position that she seemed unable
to turn her head in order to look down.

In ten seconds Regina was standing directly below the terrified girl,
raising herself on tiptoe, and trying to reach her feet with her hands,
to guide them to a hold; but she could not.

"Don't be frightened," Regina said in Italian, which was the only
language she knew.

"I cannot hold on!" answered the girl, trying to look down, but feeling
that her foot would slip if she turned her head far enough.

"Yes, you can," Regina replied, too much roused to be surprised that the
answer had come in her own language. "Your dress will hold you, even if
you let go with your hands. It is new and it is strong, and it is fairly
caught on the rock. I can see that."

"But I can't hang here until you go and get help," cried the girl, not
much reassured.

"I am going to climb to the top by an easier way and pull you up again,"
Regina answered. "Then we can get down together."

While Regina was speaking she had already begun the ascent, which was
easy enough for her, at the point she had chosen, though many an Alpine
climber might have envied the quickness and sureness of her hold with
feet and hands. She realised that she had forgotten her shoes now, and
was glad that she had taken them off.

"One minute more!" she cried in an encouraging tone, when she had almost
reached the top.

"Quick!" came the imploring answer.

Then Regina was lying flat on the ledge above the girl, stretching both
hands down and catching the slender white wrists with a hold like
steel. And then, feeling herself held and safe to move, the girl looked
up, and Regina was looking into Aurora's face below her. For one instant
the two did not recognise each other, for they had only seen each other
once, by night, under the portico of the Théâtre Français. But an
instant later a flush of anger rose to Aurora's forehead, and the dark
woman turned pale, and her brows were suddenly level and stern. They
hated each other, as the one hung there held by the other's hands, and
the black eyes gazed savagely into the angry blue ones. Aurora was not
frightened any longer; she was angry because she was in Regina's power.
The strong woman could save her if she would, and Aurora would despise
herself ever afterwards for having been saved by her. Or the strong
woman could let her fall, and she would probably be maimed for life if
she were not killed outright. That seemed almost better. She had never
understood before what it could mean to be altogether in the power of an
enemy.

Regina meant to save her; that was clear. With quick, commanding words
she told her what to do.

"Set your knees against the rock and pull yourself up a little by my
hands. So! I can pull you higher now. Get one knee well on that ledge.
Now I will hold your left hand with both mine while you disentangle your
frock from the point. Now put your right hand round my neck while I
raise myself a little. Yes, that way. Now, hold on tight!"

Regina made a steady effort, lifting fully half Aurora's weight with
her, as she got first upon one knee and then upon both.

[Illustration: "REGINA MADE A STEADY EFFORT, LIFTING FULLY HALF AURORA'S
WEIGHT WITH HER."]

"There! Take breath and then scramble over the edge," she said.

A few seconds, another effort, and Aurora sank exhausted beside Regina,
half sitting, half lying, and resting on one hand.

She looked up sideways at the dark woman's face; for Regina stood
upright, gazing down into the valley. Aurora turned her eyes away, and
then looked up again; she had recovered her breath now.

"Thank you," she said, with an effort.

"It is nothing," Regina answered in an indifferent tone, and without so
much as moving her head; she was no more out of breath than if she had
been sitting still.

The fair girl hated her at that moment as she had never hated any one in
her short life, nor had ever dreamed of hating. The flush of anger rose
again and again to her forehead, to the very roots of her auburn hair,
and lingered a second and sank again. Regina stood perfectly motionless,
her face as unchanging as marble.

Aurora rose to her feet, and leaned against the rock. She had suddenly
felt herself at a disadvantage in remaining seated on the ground while
her adversary was standing. It was the instinct of the animal that
expects to be attacked. When two people who hate each other or love each
other very much meet without warning in a very lonely place, the fierce
old passions of the stone age may take hold of them and sway them, even
nowadays.

For a time that seemed long, there was silence; without words each knew
that the other had recognised her. The peasant woman spoke first, though
with an evident effort, and without turning her eyes.

"When you are rested, we will go down," she said.

Aurora moved a step towards the side on which Regina had climbed up.

"I think I can get down alone," she answered coldly.

Regina looked at her and laughed with a little contempt.

"You will break your neck if you try," she said. "You cannot climb at
all!"

"I think I can get down," Aurora repeated.

She went to the edge and was going to begin the attempt when Regina
seized her by the wrist and dragged her back in spite of her resistance.

"I have something to tell you first," Regina said. "Afterwards I will
take you down, and you shall not fall. You shall reach the bottom safely
and go home alone, or I will show you the way, as you please."

"Let go of my wrist!" Aurora spoke angrily, for the strong grasp hurt
her and humiliated her.

"Listen to me," continued Regina, loosing her hold at once. "I am
Regina. You are Aurora. We have heard of each other, and we have met.
Let us talk. This is a good place and we are alone, and the day is
long, and we may not meet again soon. We will say what we have to say
now, and then we will part."

"What is there to be said?" Aurora asked coldly and drawing back a
little.

"We two love the same man," Regina said. "Is that nothing? You know it
is true. If we were not Christians we should try to kill each other
here, where it is quiet. I could easily have killed you just now, and I
wished to."

"I wonder why you did not!" exclaimed Aurora, rather scornfully.

"I thought with myself thus: 'If I kill her, I shall always have the
satisfaction of it as long as I live. This is the truth. But I shall go
to prison for many years and shall not see him again, therefore I will
not do it. Besides, it will not please him. If it would make him happy I
would kill her, even if I were to go to the galleys for it. But it would
not. He would be very angry.' This is what I thought; and I pulled you
up. And now, I will not let you hurt yourself in getting down, because
he would be angry with me if he knew that it was my fault."

Aurora listened to this extraordinary argument in silent surprise. She
was not in the least frightened, but she saw at a glance that Regina was
quite in earnest, and she knew her own people, and that the Roman
peasants are not the gentlest of the Italians.

"He would be very angry," Regina repeated. "I am sure he would!"

"Why should he be angry?" Aurora asked, in a tone half contemptuous and
yet half sad.

"I know he would, because when he raved in his fever he used to call for
you."

Aurora started and fixed her eyes on Regina's.

"Yes," Regina said, answering the look. "He often called you by name. He
loved you once."

She pronounced the words with an accent of pity, drawing herself up to
her full height; and there was triumph in the light of her eyes. It is
not every woman that has a chance of saying so much to her rival.

"We were children then," Aurora said, in the very words she had used to
her mother more than two years earlier.

She was almost as pale as Regina now, for the thrust had been straight
and sure, and right at her heart. But she was prouder than the peasant
woman who had wounded her.

"I have heard that you saved his life," she said presently. "And he
loves you. You are happy!"

"I should always be happy if he and I were alone in the world," Regina
answered, for she was a little softened by the girl's tone. "But even
now they are trying to part us."

"To part you?" Again Aurora looked up suddenly. "Who is trying to do
that? A woman?"

Regina laughed a little.

"You are jealous," she said. "That shows that you love him still. No. It
is not a woman."

"Corbario?" The name rose instinctively to Aurora's lips.

"Yes," Regina answered. "That is why I am left alone this morning.
Signor Corbario is at Saint Moritz and Marcello is gone down to see him.
I know he is trying to separate us. You did not know that he was so
near?"

"We only came yesterday afternoon," Aurora answered. "We did not know
that--that Signor Consalvi was here, or we should not have come at all."

It had stung her to hear Regina speak of him quite naturally by his
first name. Regina felt the rebuke.

"I am truly sorry that I should have accidentally found myself in your
path," she said, emphasising the rather grand phrase, and holding her
handsome head very high.

Aurora almost smiled at this sudden manifestation of the peasant's
nature, and wondered whether Regina ever said such things to Marcello,
and whether, if she did, they jarred on him very much. The speech had
the very curious effect of restoring Aurora's sense of superiority, and
she answered more kindly.

"You need not be sorry," she said. "If you had not chanced to be here I
should probably be lying amongst the rocks down there with several
broken bones."

"If it were not by my fault I should not care," Regina retorted, with
elementary frankness.

"But I should!" Aurora laughed, in spite of herself, and liking this
phase of Regina's character better than any she had yet seen. "Come,"
she said, with a sudden generous impulse, and holding out her hand,
"let us stop quarrelling. You saved me from a bad accident, and I was
too ungenerous to be grateful. I thank you now, with all my heart."

Regina was surprised and stared hard at her for a moment, and then
glanced at her outstretched hand.

"You would not take my hand if there were any one here to see."

"Why not?"

"Because they have told you that I am a wicked woman," Regina answered,
a slight blush rising in her cheeks. "And perhaps it is true. But it was
for him."

"I would take your hand anywhere, because you saved his life," said
Aurora, and her voice shook a little as she said the last words. "And
besides, no one has told me that you are wicked. Come, what is the use
of hating each other?"

Regina took her hand reluctantly, but not suspiciously, and held it a
moment.

"It does not mean that I shall not hate you if he ever loves you again,"
she said. "If I made you think that it would be treachery, and that is
the worst sin."

"It only means that I thank you now, quite honestly," Aurora answered,
and their hands parted.

"Very well." Regina seemed satisfied. "And I thank you for taking my
hand," she added, with something oddly like real gratitude, "and because
you said you would do it anywhere, even before other women. I know what
I am, and what people call me. But it was for him. Let us not talk of
it any more. I will help you down, and you shall go home alone."

"My mother is waiting for me far down, towards the village," Aurora
said.

"All the better. A young lady like you should not go about without any
one. It is not proper."

Aurora suppressed a smile at the thought of being reproved concerning
the proprieties by "Marcello's Regina," and she began the descent.
Regina went down first, facing the rock, and planting the young girl's
feet in the best stepping places, one after the other, with constant
warnings and instructions as to holding on with her hands. They reached
the bottom in safety, and came to the place where Regina had left her
hat and shoes. She sat down where she had been sitting when she had
first heard the cry, and began to put them on.

"I had taken them off for coolness as I sat here," she explained. "You
see, until I was fourteen I only wore them on Sundays."

"And yet you have such beautiful feet," Aurora said.

"Have I?" Regina asked indifferently. "I thought all feet were alike.
But I have torn my stocking--it is hard to get the shoe on."

"Let me help you." Aurora knelt down quickly, and began to loosen the
lacing further, but Regina protested, flushing deeply and trying to draw
her foot back.

"No, no!" she cried. "You are a lady!"

"What difference does that make?" asked Aurora, laughing and insisting.

"This is not right!" Regina still protested, and the blush had not left
her cheeks.

But Aurora smoothed the torn stocking under the sole of each foot, and
slipped on the shoes, which were by no means tight, and tied the lacing
fast.

"Thank you, Signorina," Regina said, much confused. "You are too good!"

She picked up her hat and put it on, but she was not clever with the
pin, for she was used to having Settimia do everything for her which she
had not learned to do for herself before she had come to Rome.

"I can never manage it without Settimia," she said, as if excusing
herself for her awkwardness, as she again submitted to Aurora's help.

"Settimia?" repeated the young girl, as she put the hat on and thrust a
long pin through it. "Who is Settimia?"

"Our--I mean my maid," Regina explained. "Thank you. You are too good!"

"It is an uncommon name," Aurora said, looking critically at the hat.
"But I think I have heard it before."

"She is a wonderful woman. She knows French. She knows everything!"

Aurora said nothing to this, but seemed to be trying to recall something
she had long forgotten. Regina was very busy in her turn, pulling down
the girl's frock all round, and brushing it with her hand as well as
she could, and picking off bits of dry grass and thistles that clung to
the grey woollen. Aurora thanked her.

"The way down is very easy now," Regina said. "A few steps farther on we
can see the road."

"After all, why should you not come with me till we find my mother?"
Aurora asked.

"No," Regina answered with quiet decision. "I am what I am. You must not
be seen with Regina. Do not tell your mother that you have been with me,
and I shall not tell Marcello--I mean, Signor Consalvi."

"Why not?"

"Neither of them would be pleased. Trust me. I know the world. Good-bye,
and the Madonna accompany you; and remember what I said when I took your
hand."

So they parted, and Regina stood up a long time, and watched the slender
grey figure descending to the road in the valley.




CHAPTER XIII


"Variety, my dear Marcello, variety! There is nothing like it. If I were
you, I would make some change, for your life must be growing monotonous,
and besides, though I have not the least intention of reading you a
lecture, you have really made your doings unnecessarily conspicuous of
late. The Paris chroniclers have talked about you enough for the
present. Don't you think so? Yes, finish the bottle. I always told you
that champagne was good for you."

Marcello filled his glass and sipped the wine before he answered. It had
not gone to his head, but there was colour in his lean cheeks, his eyes
were brighter than usual, and he felt the familiar exhilaration which he
had missed of late.

"I have been drinking milk for ten days," he said with a smile, as he
set down the glass.

"Good in its way, no doubt," Corbario answered genially, "but a little
tiresome. One should often change from simple things to complicated
ones. It is the science of enjoyment. Besides, it is bad for the
digestion to live always on bread and milk."

"I don't live on that altogether," laughed Marcello.

"I mean it metaphorically, my dear boy. There is such a thing as
simplifying one's existence too much. That sometimes ends in getting
stuck. Now you cannot possibly allow yourself to get stuck in your
present position. You know what I mean. Oh, I don't blame you! If I were
your age I should probably do the same thing, especially if I had your
luck. Blame you? No! Not in the least. The cigarettes are there. You've
not given up smoking too? No, that's right. A man without a small vice
is as uninteresting as a woman without a past or a landscape without
shadows. Cigarettes never hurt anybody. Look at me! I used to smoke
fifty a day when I was your age."

Marcello blew a cloud of smoke, stirred his coffee, and leaned back. He
had scarcely heard what Corbario said, but the elder man's careless
chatter had put him at his ease.

"Folco," he said quietly, "I want to ask you a question, and I want you
to answer me seriously. Will you?"

"As well as I can," answered Corbario, instantly changing his tone and
growing earnest.

"Don't be surprised," Marcello said, half apologetically, as if he were
already weakening. "I shall never do anything without your advice. Of
course you know how I feel about all this, that I am leading a
disorderly life, and--well, you understand!"

"Perfectly, my dear boy. I only wish to help you out of it as soon as
possible, if you want to be helped. I'm quite sure that you will pull
through in time. I have always believed in you."

"Thank you. I know you have. Well, I'll ask you my question. You know
well enough that I shall never care for society much, don't you?"

"Society will care for you," answered Folco. "What is the question?"

"I'm coming to it, but I want to explain, or it will not be quite clear.
You see, it is not as if I were a personage in the world."

"What sort of personage? Please explain."

"I mean, if I were the head of a great house, with a great title and
hereditary estate."

"What has that to do with it?" Folco was mystified.

"If I were, it would make a difference, I suppose. But I'm not. I'm
plain Marcello Consalvi, no better than any one else."

"But vastly richer," Folco suggested.

"I wish I were not. I wish I were a poor clerk, working for my living."

"The air of this place is not good for you, my boy." Folco laughed
gaily.

"No, don't laugh! I'm in earnest. If I were a poor man, nobody would
think it at all strange if--" Marcello hesitated.

"If what?"

"If I married Regina," said Marcello rather desperately.

Folco's expression changed instantly.

"Was that the question you were going to ask me?" he inquired.

"Yes."

Marcello grew very red and smoked so fast that he choked himself.

"Is there any earthly reason why you should marry her?" asked Folco very
quietly.

"It would be right," Marcello answered, gaining courage.

"Yes, yes, undoubtedly," Folco hastened to admit. "In principle it would
undoubtedly be right. But it is a very serious matter, my dear boy. It
means your whole life and future. Have you"--he hesitated, with an
affectation of delicacy--"have you said anything to her about it?"

"I used to, at first, but she would not hear of it. You have no idea how
simple she is, and how little she expects anything of the sort. She
always tells me that I am to send her away when I am tired of her, to
throw her away like an old coat, as she says herself. But I could never
do that, you know. Could I?"

Marcello blushed again, hardly knowing why. Corbario seemed deeply
interested.

"She must be a very unusual sort of girl," he observed thoughtfully.
"There are not many like her, I fancy."

"There is nobody like her," Marcello answered with conviction. "That is
why I want to marry her. I owe it to her. You must admit that. I owe her
my life, for I certainly should have died if she had not taken care of
me. And then, there is the rest. She has given me all she has, and that
is herself, and she asks nothing in return. She is very proud, too. I
tried to make her accept a string of pearls in Paris, just because I
thought they would be becoming to her, but she absolutely refused."

"Really? I suppose you gave the pearls back to the jeweller?"

"No, I kept them. Perhaps I shall get her to wear them some day."

Folco smiled.

"You may just as well encourage her simple tastes," he said. "Women
always end by learning how to spend money, unless it is their own."

Having delivered himself of this piece of wisdom Folco chose a cigar,
nipped off the end of it neatly with a gold cutter, lit it and snuffed
the rich smoke up his nose in a deliberate manner.

"Regina is a very remarkable woman," he said at last. "If she had been
well educated, she would make an admirable wife; and she loves you
devotedly, Marcello. Now, the real question is--at least, it seems to me
so--you don't mind my talking to you just as I would to myself, do you?
Very well. If I were in your position, I should ask myself, as a man of
honour, whether I really loved her as much as she loved me, or whether I
had only been taken off my feet by her beauty. Don't misunderstand me,
my boy! I should feel that if I were not quite sure of that, I ought not
to marry her, because it would be much worse for her in the end than if
we parted. Have you ever asked yourself that question, Marcello?"

"Yes, I have."

Marcello spoke in a low voice, and bent his head, as if he were not
sure of the answer. Corbario, satisfied with the immediate effect of his
satanic speech, waited a moment, sighed, looked down at his cigar, and
then went on in gentle tones.

"That is so often the way," he said. "A man marries a woman out of a
sense of duty, and then makes her miserably unhappy, quite in spite of
himself. Of course, in such a case as yours, you feel that you owe a
woman amends--you cannot call it compensation, as if it were a matter of
law! She has given everything, and you have given nothing. You owe her
happiness, if you can bestow it upon her, don't you?"

"Indeed I do!" assented Marcello.

"Yes. The question is, whether the way to make her happy is to marry
her, when you have a reasonable doubt as to whether you can be a good
husband to her. That is the real problem, it seems to me. Do you love
her enough to give up the life to which you were born, and for which you
were educated? You would have to do that, you know. Our friends--your
dear mother's friends, my boy--would never receive her, least of all
after what has happened."

"I know it."

"You would have to wander about Europe, or live in San Domenico, for you
could not bear to live in Rome, meeting women who would not bow to your
wife. I know you. You could not possibly bear it."

"I should think not!"

"No. Therefore, since you have the doubt, since you are not absolutely
sure of yourself, I think the only thing to do is to find out what you
really feel, before taking an irreparable step."

"Yes," said Marcello, who had fallen into the trap laid for him. "I know
that. But how am I to make sure of myself?"

"There is only one way," Folco answered. "I know it is not easy, and if
I were not sure that you are perfectly sincere I should be afraid to
propose it to you."

"What is it? Tell me. You are the only friend I have in the world,
Folco, and I want to do what is right. God knows, I am in earnest! There
are moments when I cannot imagine living without Regina--it seemed hard
to leave her this morning, even for these few hours, and I long to be
back at Pontresina already! Yet you know how fond I am of you, and how I
like to be with you, for we have always been more like brothers than
anything else."

"Indeed we have!" Folco assented fervently. "You were saying that there
were moments--yes?"

"Sometimes she jars upon me dreadfully," Marcello said in a low voice,
as if he were ashamed of owning it. "Then I want to get away."

"Exactly. You want to get away, not to leave her, but to be alone for a
few hours, or a few days. That would be the very best thing you could
do--to separate for a little while. You would very soon find out whether
you could live without her or not; and believe me, if you feel that you
can live without her, that means that you could not live with her for
your whole life."

"I should go back to her in twenty-four hours. I am sure I should."

"Perhaps you would, if you went, say, from here to Paris alone, with
nothing to distract your attention. But suppose that you and I should go
together, to some place where we should meet our friends, all amusing
themselves, where you could talk to other women, and meet men of your
own age, and lead the life people expect you to lead, just for a few
weeks. You know that society will be only too glad to see something of
you, whenever you choose to go near it. You are what is called a good
match, and all the mothers with marriageable daughters would run after
you."

"Disgusting!" exclaimed Marcello, with contempt.

"No doubt, but it would be a wholesome change and a good test. When a
young girl is determined to be a nun, she is generally made to spend a
year in society, in order to make acquaintance with what she intends to
give up. I don't see much difference between that and your case. Before
you say good-bye for ever to your own world, find out what it is like.
At the same time, you will settle for ever any doubts you have about
really loving Regina."

"Perhaps you are right. It would only be for a few days."

"And besides," Folco continued, "if you have not yet found it dull at
Pontresina, you certainly will before long. There is no reason why you
should lead the life of an invalid, for you are quite strong now."

"Oh, quite. I always tell Regina so, but she insists that I am too thin,
and it amuses her to take care of me."

"Naturally. That is how you first made acquaintance. A woman who has
once taken care of a man she loves wants him to be ever afterwards an
invalid, for ever getting better! A man gets tired of that in time. It
was a great pity you left Paris just when I came, for there are many
things we could have enjoyed together there."

"I daresay," Marcello answered, not paying much attention to the other's
words.

"Take my advice, my dear boy," said Folco. "Come away with me for a few
days. I will wait here till you are quite ready, for of course you
cannot be sure of getting off at once. You will have to prepare Regina
for this."

"Of course. I am not sure that it is possible at all."

Folco laughed gaily.

"Anything is possible that you really wish to do," he said.

"Regina may insist upon coming with me."

"Nonsense. Women always submit in the end, and they never die of it.
Assert yourself, Marcello! Be a man! You cannot be ordered about like a
child by any woman, not even if she has saved your life, not even if
she loves you to distraction. You have a right to a will of your own."

"I know. And yet--oh, I wish I knew what I ought to do!"

"Think over all I have said, and you will see that I am right," said
Folco, rising from the table. "And if you take my advice, you will be
doing what is fair and honest by Regina as well as by yourself. Your own
conscience must tell you that."

Poor Marcello was not very sure what had become of his own conscience
during the past year, and Folco's arguments swayed him as he groped for
something definite to follow, and found nothing but what Corbario chose
to thrust into his hand.

As they stood by the table, a servant brought a note on a little salver,
holding it out to them as if he were not sure which of them was to
receive it. Both glanced at the address; it was for Corbario, who took
it quickly and put it into his pocket; but Marcello had recognised the
handwriting--that rather cramped feminine hand of a woman who has seen
better days, in which Settimia kept accounts for Regina. The latter
insisted that an account should be kept of the money which Marcello gave
her, and that he should see it from time to time. At the first moment,
being absorbed with other matters, and inwardly much engaged in the
pursuit of his own conscience, which eluded him at every turn like a
figure in a dream, he paid no attention to what he had seen; but the
writing had impressed itself on his memory.

They had been lunching in Folco's sitting-room, and Corbario made an
excuse to go into his bedroom for a moment, saying that he wanted
certain cigars that his man had put away. Marcello stood at the window
gazing down the broad valley. Scarcely a minute elapsed before Folco
came back with a handful of Havanas which he dropped on a writing-table.

"By the bye," he said carelessly, "there is another reason why you may
not care to stay long in Pontresina. The Contessa and Aurora are there."

"Are they?" Marcello turned sharply as he asked the question.

He was surprised, and at the same instant it flashed upon him that Folco
had just received the information from Settimia in the note that had
been brought.

"Yes," Folco answered with a smile. "And Pontresina is such a small
place that you can hardly help meeting them. I thought I might as well
tell you."

"Thank you. Yes, it would be awkward, and unpleasant for them."

"Precisely. The Contessa wrote me that she and Aurora had come upon you
two unexpectedly in leaving a theatre, and that she had felt very
uncomfortable."

"Oh! I suppose she suggested that I should mend my ways?"

"As a matter of fact, she did." Corbario smiled. "You know what a very
proper person she is!"

"She is quite right," answered Marcello gravely.

"It certainly cannot have been pleasant for her, on account of Aurora."

Folco looked at him thoughtfully, for his tone had suddenly changed.

"If you don't mind," Folco said, "I think I will drive up with you and
call on them this afternoon. You can drop me at their hotel, and I shall
find my way back alone."

"Certainly."

"Are you sure you don't mind?" Folco affected to speak anxiously.

"Why should I?"

"You see," Folco said, without heeding the question, "they let me know
that they were there, and as we are such old friends it would be strange
if I did not go to see them."

"Of course it would," answered Marcello in an absent tone.

He already connected Folco's knowledge of the Contessa's arrival in
Pontresina so closely with Settimia's note that Folco's last statement
had taken him by surprise, and a multitude of confused questions
presented themselves to his mind. If Settimia had not written about the
Contessa, why had she written at all? How did she know where Corbario
was stopping in Saint Moritz? Was she in the habit of writing to him?
Corbario had found her for Regina; was Settimia helping Corbario to
exercise a sort of paternal vigilance over him? Somehow Marcello did not
like that idea at all. So far as he knew, Folco had always been
singularly frank with him, and had never deceived him in the smallest
thing, even "for his own good." Marcello could only attribute good
motives to him, but the mere idea of being watched was excessively
disagreeable. He wondered whether Settimia had influenced Regina to get
him away from Paris, acting under directions from Corbario. Was Regina
deceiving him too, "for his own good"? If there is anything a man cannot
bear from those he loves best, it is that they should take counsel
together secretly to direct him "for his own good."

Marcello tried to put the thought out of his mind; but it had dawned
upon him for the first time that Folco could tell even a pious
falsehood. Yet he had no proof whatever that he had guessed right; it
was a sudden impression and nothing more. He was much more silent during
the rest of the afternoon as he drove up to Pontresina with Folco, and
it seemed to him that he had at last touched something definite; which
was strange enough, considering that it was all a matter of guess-work
and doubt.

And now fate awoke again and did one of those little things that decide
men's lives. If Folco and Marcello had stopped at the door of the
Contessa's hotel two minutes earlier, or thirty seconds later, than they
did, they would not have chanced upon the Contessa and Aurora just
coming in from a walk. But fate brought the four together precisely at
that moment. As the carriage stopped, the two ladies had come from the
opposite direction and were on the door-step.

"What a surprise!" exclaimed the Contessa, giving her hand graciously
to Folco and then to Marcello.

The latter had got hold of a thread. Since the Contessa was surprised to
see Folco, she could not possibly have already let him know that she was
in Pontresina.

"I came as soon as I knew that you were here," said Corbario quickly.

Marcello heard the words, though he was at that moment shaking hands
with Aurora, and their eyes had met. She was perfectly calm and
collected, none the worse for her adventure in the morning, and
considerably the wiser.

"Will you come in?" asked the Contessa, leading the way, as if expecting
both men to follow.

Corbario went at once. Marcello hesitated, and flushed a little, and
Aurora seemed to be waiting for him.

"Shall I come, too?" he asked.

"Just as you please," she answered. "My mother will think it strange if
you don't."

Marcello bent his head, and the two followed the others towards the
stairs at a little distance.

"Did your mother send word to Folco that you were here?" asked Marcello
quickly, in a low tone.

"Not that I know. Why?"

"It is no matter. I wanted to be sure. Thank you."

They went upstairs side by side, not even glancing at each other, much
more anxious to seem perfectly indifferent than to realise what they
felt now that they had met at last.

Marcello stayed ten minutes in the small sitting-room, talking as well
as he could. He had no wish to be alone with Aurora or her mother, and
since the visit had been pressed upon him he was glad that Folco was
present. But he got away as soon as he could, leaving Corbario to his
own devices. The Contessa gave him her hand quietly, as if she had not
expected him to stay, and she did not ask him to come again. Aurora
merely nodded to him, and he saw that just as he went out she left the
room by another door, after glancing at him once more with apparent
coldness.

He walked quickly through the village until he came near to his own
hotel, and then his pace slackened by degrees. He knew that he had felt
a strong emotion in seeing Aurora again, and he was already wishing that
he had not come away so soon. The room had been small, and it had been
uncomfortable to be there, feeling himself judged and condemned by the
Contessa and distrusted by Aurora; but he had been in an atmosphere that
recalled all his youth, with people whose mere presence together brought
back the memory of his dead mother as nothing else had done since his
illness. He was just in that state of mind in which he would have broken
away and freed himself within the hour, at any cost, if he had been
involved in a common intrigue.

At the same time he had become convinced that Folco had deceived him,
for some reason or other which he could not guess, and the knowledge was
the first serious disillusionment of his life. The deception had been
small, and perhaps intended in some mysterious way to be "for his own
good"; but it had been a distinct deception and no better than a lie. He
was sure of that.

He went upstairs slowly and Regina met him at the door of their rooms,
and took his hat and stick without a word, for she saw that something
had happened, and she felt suddenly cold. He was quite unlike himself.
The careless look was gone from his face, his young lips were tightly
closed, and he looked straight before him, quite unconscious that his
manner was hurting her desperately.

"Has Settimia been out to-day?" he asked, looking at her quickly.

"I don't know," she answered, surprised. "I went for a long walk this
morning. She probably went out into the village. I cannot tell. Why do
you ask?"

"I wish to know whether she sent a note to Saint Moritz by a messenger.
Can you find out, without asking her a direct question? I am very
anxious to know."

"I will try, but it will not be easy," said Regina, watching him.

She had made up her mind that the blow was coming, and that Marcello was
only putting off the moment when she must be told that he meant to leave
her. She was very quiet, and waited for him to speak again, for she was
