one of the dock men. "It's called the Sharon House."
"Thank you," returned our hero.
He was soon on the way to the Sharon House--since demolished by fire.
It did not take him long to cover the distance. As he approached he
looked around for some signs of the Bangs family and presently espied
Mrs. Bangs lounging in a hammock on a side veranda, reading a novel.
"I wonder if it is possible that Bob is really in bed sick?" he mused.
"If he is it's a wonder Mrs. Bangs isn't with him. But then I guess she
is a selfish woman, anyway."
Randy walked around the hotel and down to the stable. Here he met a
colored boy who helped around the horses.
"Say, can you tell me where I can find Bob Bangs?" he asked, boldly.
"Bob Bangs jest went down to the ball grounds," was the answer, which
surprised Randy not a little.
"Where are the grounds?"
"That way," and the colored boy pointed with his hand.
"I thought maybe Bob was sick."
"He ain't sick--he's only pertendin'," answered the colored boy.
Randy said no more but hurried off in the direction of the baseball
grounds. Just as he came in sight of the place, he saw a figure ahead
that looked familiar to him.
"Unless I am mistaken, that is Bob," he told himself, and hurried
closer.
It was indeed Bob Bangs, walking along as if nothing had ever happened
to him. He was smoking a cigarette. He passed into the grounds and
Randy did the same, and took a seat on a bench directly behind the rich
youth.
It was easy to see that Bob Bangs was not suffering physically. He
smoked half a dozen cigarettes, and applauded as loudly as anybody when
a good play was made.
"Fine game," said a man sitting next to Randy.
"It is," said our hero. He looked at the man and saw that he was
evidently a merchant. "Excuse me, are you from Catskill?"
"I am."
"Do you want to do me a favor if I pay you for it?"
"Well, it won't be a favor if you pay me."
"I may want your assistance and I may not. Do you see that boy there?"
"Yes."
"He doesn't look as if he was sick abed, does he?"
"Sick abed? What sort of a game is this?" and the merchant looked Randy
over with much curiosity.
"That boy's father says he is sick in bed. I want to prove that it
isn't so."
"What is the game, anyway?"
"He had an accident on the river and he wants damages from a man I work
for. It is a put-up job."
"Oh! I've heard of such things before. I know a rascal who cut his foot
with an ax and then went down to the railroad and laid the blame on a
train. He got five hundred dollars, but, later on, was found out and
sent to prison for the deception."
"Well, this isn't exactly like that. Didn't you hear about a sloop
running into the Helen Shalley a few days ago?"
"Oh, yes, a friend of mine, a passenger on the boat, told me about it.
He said the boy didn't know how to handle the craft."
"Well, that is the boy."
"Indeed!"
"Does he act as if he was hurt or suffering?"
"Not in the least."
"Would you be willing to testify to that fact, if it came to law?"
"Certainly."
"Will you give me your name and address?"
"Here is my card," and the merchant handed it over. He did not add that
he occasionally sold Captain Hadley some goods and was glad to do the
master of the steamboat a service.
The game was almost at an end when the ball was sent among the
spectators. Seeing it coming towards him, Bob Bangs leaped up and tried
to catch the sphere. It hit the tips of his fingers, stinging them
greatly. Then the ball came towards Randy and he caught it and threw it
back into the field.
"What are you doing here?" demanded Bob Bangs, as he caught sight of
our hero.
"Watching the game," answered Randy, quietly.
"Humph!"
"Pretty nice game, Bob."
"Humph!" muttered the rich boy again.
"I see you are feeling fine again."
"I am not--I am real sick," answered the rich boy, quickly.
"Sick in bed, eh?" went on our hero, with a grin.
"I was in bed."
"Last night, I suppose. So was I."
"I'm sick yet."
"You showed it--by the way you were cheering and yelling."
"When did you come in?"
"Right after you."
"Humph! Have you been watching me?"
"Yes."
"You might be in a better business," sneered the rich boy.
"I don't think so. You need watching. You and your father want to cheat
the steamboat company by pretending that you were hurt in that
collision, and here you are as well and hearty as ever," added Randy in
a loud voice, so that those nearby might hear.
"I ain't well--I'm sick."
"You said that before--but nobody will believe it."
"You're well enough to go to a ball game and yell and smoke cigarettes,
anyway," put in the merchant sitting next to Randy.
A good play brought forth a cheer from the crowd which drowned out
further talk. In the midst of the temporary excitement Bob Bangs
sneaked from the stand and from the ball grounds.
"He feels sick over this," laughed the merchant.
"Well, he can't sue the steamboat company for that sickness," laughed
our hero in return.
CHAPTER XXI
RANDY VISITS HIS HOME
As soon as he returned to the steamboat, Randy acquainted Captain
Hadley with all he had seen and heard and gave the captain the card of
the merchant.
"You have done well, Randy," said the master of the steamboat. "I fancy
this will cook Mr. Amos Bangs's goose."
At Nyack, Mr. Shalley came on board and heard what our hero had to say.
"I am glad you have a witness," said he. "I have heard of Mr. Budmister
before."
"A good business man," said Captain Hadley. "He will make a good
witness--if the case comes to a trial."
But it never did come to a trial. Andrew Shalley received one letter
from a lawyer, threatening the suit, and in return wrote back the
particulars of what Randy had learned, and added that if he heard any
more of the matter he would bring suit against Amos Bangs for
conspiracy to defraud. There the matter ended.
The captain was so pleased that when Randy asked for a three-days'
leave of absence, that he might visit his home, it was readily granted.
The boy was also given some extra pay for his work at Catskill.
Randy's homecoming brought a warm smile to the faces of his father and
his mother. His mother kissed him tenderly and his father shook hands.
"How are you feeling, father?"
"I am almost well, Randy. I expect to go to work next week."
"But not in a cellar," said the son, quickly.
"No, Mr. Jackson is going to build a wing on his house and has given me
the whole contract."
"That is good."
"I will be able to make more money than if I was working for a boss,"
went on Mr. Thompson.
"Well, you won't be sorry for that," said Randy, with a smile.
He found matters on the farm moving along nicely. The late vegetables
were coming in well and their neighbor, Jerry Borden, had given them a
helping hand.
"Say, you're a-gittin' to be a regular sailor, ain't you?" said Sammy
to Randy.
"Hardly a sailor," answered Randy, with a laugh. "I am a steamboat
deckhand."
"It's about the same thing. Wish I was a sailor."
"Maybe if you sailed on the ocean you'd get seasick, Sammy."
"I wouldn't, nuther. I was readin' about Robinson Crusoe onct. I wish I
was cast away on a barren island. It would be lots of fun."
"Especially if you had nothing to eat and to drink."
"Oh, I'd get something from the ship, as Crusoe did."
"If the ship didn't go down in the middle of the ocean."
"When I was on the island I'd sleep every morning as long as I wanted
to."
"What would you do if the savages came after you?"
"I'd fight and kill them all--that is, all but one. I'd want that one
for my man Friday."
"He ain't going to be no sailor," broke in Mrs. Borden, who overheard
the conversation. "He is going out to hunt eggs an' he is a-goin' to do
it right now, or I'll get the whip."
"I'll get the eggs," answered Sammy, and hurried off without further
delay.
"That boy is crazy to go somewhere all the time," said Mrs. Borden. "He
doesn't seem to like the farm a bit."
"Better let him look for work somewhere," said Randy. "Maybe it will
cure him of some of his notions."
"Maybe," sighed the mother.
All too soon Randy's visit had come to an end. He remained at the
little farm over Sunday, going to church with his father and his
mother, and left for the Hudson River early Monday morning.
Several days passed quietly and once more our hero fell into his
routine work. Jones was sick, so the deckhands had a little more to do
than usual. Randy pitched in with vigor, much to the satisfaction of
Malloy and Captain Hadley.
One day, while handling baggage at the dock in New York, Randy was
surprised to see Amos Bangs and a stranger come aboard. He soon lost
sight of the pair and did not see them again until the middle of the
afternoon, when he discovered them in a corner of the cabin, talking
earnestly.
"It is queer Mr. Bangs should use this boat--after his quarrel with
Captain Hadley and Mr. Shalley," said our hero to himself.
He had occasion to pass the pair a little later and was surprised to
hear the name of Mr. Bartlett mentioned.
"Don't worry; we'll down Bartlett easily enough," said the strange man,
a fellow with bushy black whiskers.
"I hope so," answered Amos Bangs.
Curious to know what they could be saying about Jack's father, and
remembering what he had heard in the past, Randy walked outside of the
cabin and close to a window which was wide open. From this point he
could hear what was said without being seen very readily.
"I don't like the way matters are standing," he heard Amos Bangs say.
"We must make our position more secure, Tuller."
"I don't see how we are to do it," answered the man with the heavy
whiskers.
"I wish I could get Bartlett to sell his stock and sign over all his
interest."
"Can you do that without making him suspicious of what is going on?"
"Humph! He is suspicious already, that's the trouble."
"Does he know about the deal with Kastner?"
"I think not."
"It will be a blow, when he hears of it."
"I don't intend he shall hear of it just yet. If I had Robinson where I
wanted him, I'd go ahead."
"Can't you get him?"
"Get him? I don't dare breathe a word to him." Amos Bangs laughed. "And
the funny part of it is, Bartlett thinks Robinson is in with us."
"You are sure of that?"
"Dead certain."
"Then you must keep Bartlett and Robinson apart."
"If I can."
"What did you do with the papers you took from Bartlett's desk?"
"They are in my safe at home."
"Why don't you destroy them?"
"I will, some time."
"It is dangerous to leave them around."
"I am the only person who knows the combination of the house safe. The
papers can't get out without me."
So the talk ran on for a good hour, during which time Randy heard many
things which appeared to be of value to Mr. Philip Bartlett. Then the
two men arose and went to the smoking room, and that was the last our
hero saw of them until they left the boat, half an hour later.
The talk he had heard set Randy to thinking. Plainly Amos Bangs and his
companion were a pair of rascals and were trying to defraud Mr.
Bartlett out of some if not all of his belongings.
"I'll have to call on Mr. Bartlett and tell him what I have heard,"
Randy told himself.
"See here!" called out Peter Polk, striding up as Randy was going to
the lower deck. "What are you loafing around here for?"
"I am going below now," answered our hero.
"You can't shirk your work that way, Thompson." The purser came closer.
"Listen," he whispered. "After this you keep your nose out of my
business."
"I didn't know I had my nose in your business, Mr. Polk."
"Oh, you can't fool me, Thompson. I know it was you went to Captain
Hadley with the story of how I was treating my relatives."
"You mean the Clares?"
"Of course I do. After this you keep your mouth shut," pursued the
purser. "If you don't--well, you'll wish you had, that's all." And
Peter Polk went away in extremely bad humor.
CHAPTER XXII
MR. BARTLETT MAKES A MOVE
As soon as the boat had tied up at Albany, and his work was at an end,
Randy attired himself in his best and took a street car for the
residence of the Bartletts. It was a humble place on a side street,
quite in contrast to the fine residence the family had occupied in
Riverport.
"Hullo, Randy!" cried Jack, as he came to the door to answer our hero's
ring. "This is a surprise. Walk right in. Did you send word that you
were coming?"
"I did not, Jack. Is your father home?"
"Yes, he is just finishing his supper."
"I want to see him."
"Had your supper?"
"Yes, I got a bite before I left the boat."
"All right--otherwise I know mother will welcome you at our table."
Jack went off to tell his father, and presently Mr. Bartlett walked in.
He looked rather care-worn and tired. Evidently his new situation was a
hard one to fill and did not agree with him.
"How do you do, Randy?" said Mr. Bartlett. "Glad to see you. Jack says
you want to see me."
"I do, Mr. Bartlett. Can I talk to you in private?"
"Certainly. Come into the parlor."
Mr. Bartlett led the way and closed the door. Then both sat down.
"I want to tell you something about Mr. Bangs and a man named Tuller,"
began Randy. "They were on the boat to-day and I overheard some of
their talk."
"Tuller, eh?" said Mr. Bartlett, and his brow darkened.
As well as he could Randy repeated the talk he had heard. Jack's father
listened with keen interest. He was astonished when Randy mentioned the
papers which had been abstracted from his desk.
"So Bangs has them in his safe at home, eh?" he cried. "Well, I am
going to get them, be the cost what it may. They belong to me, and I am
going to take them no matter where I find them."
He was equally astonished to hear that a certain Mr. Robinson was not
acting with Amos Bangs and certain other men, Tuller included.
"They gave me to understand that Robinson was with them," said Philip
Bartlett. "If Robinson will only act with me, perhaps I can do a great
deal."
"Then why don't you write to Mr. Robinson and find out?"
"I will go and see him."
"Oh, then he lives here."
"No, in Springfield. But our works are going to shut down for a few
days, so I will have ample time. Randy, I am very thankful to you for
bringing me this news."
"I hope it does you some good, Mr. Bartlett."
"I think it will. Perhaps I'll only be able to scare Bangs, but that
may make him careful, so I can get something out of my stock in the
iron works company."
"If you ever want me as a witness I will do what I can for you."
"Thank you, my lad; you are kind and I will remember what you say."
After that Mrs. Bartlett and Jack came in and learned something of what
had brought our hero to the house.
"Good for you, Randy!" cried Jack. "Father, if I were you, I'd break
into old Bangs's safe."
"Pray do nothing rash," pleaded Mrs. Bartlett. "Remember he is rich and
has many friends."
"He is certainly rich," said Randy, "but I doubt if the family have
many friends. All of them are too overbearing."
"Bangs broke into father's private desk and took the papers," went on
Jack. "It would be only tit for tat to break open the safe and get the
papers back."
"I shall see Robinson first and then make up my mind what to do,"
answered his father.
Randy spent a pleasant evening with Jack, and when it came time to go
to the boat Jack walked half the distance with our hero.
"I wish father could get what is due him," said Jack on the way. "He
can't stand the hard work he is now doing."
The next morning Randy sailed down the river on the steamboat.
Twenty-four hours later Mr. Bartlett crossed the Hudson and took a
train for Springfield. He hoped to find Mr. Robinson at one of the
banks and he was not disappointed.
The bank official--for such Mr. Robinson was--listened with interest to
all Philip Bartlett had to tell. He shook his head when Amos Bangs and
Tuller were mentioned.
"I suspected as much," said he. "I was given to understand that Bangs
had bought you out. I couldn't understand it either, for you once told
me that you did not wish to leave the works. I have just gotten back
from a trip to Europe and have a good deal to attend to here, but I
will take this matter up as soon as I possibly can."
"And you will stand in with me?" asked Mr. Bartlett, anxiously.
"If you wish it."
"I do."
"Then we must act together."
"And what would be your advice regarding those papers in Bangs's
private safe at his house?"
"Get out a search warrant and take a professional safe man along, to
open the strong box," answered the bank official, promptly. "And do not
delay either. He may take it into his head to burn the papers up."
"I will do as you say," answered Mr. Bartlett with decision.
Some of his old-time will power had come back to him and he lost not a
moment in carrying out his plans. He visited a firm dealing in safes
and from them got the address of a man who claimed to be able to open
any ordinary safe made. Then he called on this individual.
"You open safes?" he asked.
"I do--if I have the proper authority," answered the man.
"Can you open a first-class house safe?"
"Yes."
"How long will it take?"
"From five minutes to three hours."
"What are your charges?"
"Ten to fifty dollars. I'll have to see the safe before I can set a
definite figure."
"Will you be at liberty to-morrow?"
"I'll be at your service if you engage me now."
"Very well, you may consider yourself engaged. I wish you to meet me in
Riverport at about noon."
"Your own safe?"
"No."
"You'll have authority to open it?"
"I think so. I've got to go to court to get it, though."
"Ah! a legal case, eh?"
"Yes. You don't object, do you?"
"Oh, no, I have many legal cases. Had to force a safe for some lawyers
in Bridgeport only last week."
"You will not disappoint me?"
"Not at all, Mr. Bartlett."
With this understanding Philip Bartlett left the safe opener and took a
train back to his home. But, as it happened, a certain man saw him
leaving the safe opener's office. This man was none other than Tuller,
the friend to Amos Bangs.
"Bartlett, eh?" murmured Tuller to himself. "What is he doing in
Springfield?"
He chanced to know the safe opener, whose name was Westinghouse, and
presently dropped into the other's office as if by accident.
"How is business, Westinghouse?" he said, indifferently.
"Fair," was the answer. "Had two jobs last week."
"Good enough."
"How is business with you?"
"Booming. I suppose you get jobs ahead, is that it, or do you go out on
the run, so to speak?"
"Sometimes I get orders ahead, but most of the jobs come in on the
run--safe out of order, or something like that. I've got to go to
Riverport to-morrow."
"Is that so? Bank?"
"No, a private party, I reckon. Going to have a safe opened by an order
from the court, I think."
"Is that so! Well, I wish you luck on the job. Good-day."
"Good-day!" answered the safe opener.
Once on the street Tuller's face changed.
"Bartlett must have given that order, and if so he means to either open
up the safe at the iron works or else the safe at Bangs's house. I must
see Bangs and warn him, so that nothing is found which will do us
harm!"
At first he thought to telegraph, but then came to the conclusion that
it would be too risky. A letter might not be received in time.
"I'll go myself," he said, and an hour later was on his way to
Riverport.
CHAPTER XXIII
THE PAPERS IN THE SAFE
At Riverport the next day Mr. Bartlett called upon a lawyer with whom
he was well acquainted and told to the legal gentleman all that he had
learned and proposed to do.
"I wish your assistance, Mr. Soper," he said.
"You shall have it," was the lawyer's prompt answer.
"Can you get an order from the court to open that safe?"
"I believe I can. Come, we will go and see the judge at once."
Fortunately for Mr. Bartlett the judge was easily found, and when the
matter was explained he issued the necessary papers and placed them in
the hands of one of the constables.
"But how are you going to open the safe if it is locked?" asked the
judge. "Constable Carley is not equal to it."
"I have engaged a professional safe opener," answered Mr. Bartlett. "He
can do the trick for the constable."
"Very well."
Mr. Bartlett, the lawyer, and the constable waited until the stage came
in. The safe opener was one of the passengers and at once joined the
crowd and was introduced.
In the meantime Jasper Tuller had also arrived in Riverport. In the
morning he lost no time in calling at the iron works.
"I want to see Mr. Bangs," he said, to the clerk who came to wait on
him.
"Sorry, sir, but Mr. Bangs went out of town late last night."
"When will he be back?"
"Not until some time this afternoon--possibly not until evening."
"Where did he go? I must communicate with him at once."
"He went to Rochester, but I can't give you the exact address,"
answered the clerk.
Jasper Tuller groaned in spirit. Could he have telegraphed to Amos
Bangs he would have done so, but the telegram would have remained at
the office awaiting a call.
"I must make a move on my own account, if I can," he muttered.
He called a carriage and was driven to the Bangs mansion. A servant
answered his rather impatient ring at the front door.
"Is anybody at home?" he asked, abruptly.
"Mr. Bangs has gone away, sir."
"I know that," he snapped. "Is Mrs. Bangs at home?"
Now it happened Mrs. Bangs had come home the night before, intending to
go away again two days later. But she had given orders that she wished
to see no one.
"I--I don't know," said the servant girl. "I can see. What is the
name?"
"Jasper Tuller. It is highly important that I see somebody of the
family at once," went on the visitor.
Mrs. Bangs was in an upper hallway and overheard the talk. She knew her
husband had had some trouble with a book agent over the payment of a
bill and took Tuller to be that person.
"A gentleman to see you, Mrs. Bangs," said the maid. "He is very
anxious about it."
"I cannot see anybody," returned the fashionable woman, coldly. "Tell
him I am not at home."
The girl went down into the hallway, where she had left Jasper Tuller
standing.
"Mrs. Bangs is not at home, sir. You will have to call some other
time."
"Is Mr. Bangs's son at home?"
"No, sir; he is away for the summer."
"When will Mrs. Bangs be back?"
"I can't say, sir."
"It is too bad. The matter is very important. I came all the way from
Springfield to see Mr. Bangs. They told me at the works he had gone to
Rochester. I wanted to see him or his wife on business. Have you any
idea where I can find Mrs. Bangs?"
The girl hesitated.
"N--no, sir," she faltered.
Mrs. Bangs was listening as before and now realized that something
unusual was in the air. She slipped down a back stairs and out of a
rear door. Then she came around to the front piazza just as the door
opened to let Tuller out.
"Mamie, who is this?" she asked, looking at the servant girl meaningly.
"Are you Mrs. Bangs?" asked Jasper Tuller, quickly, and, as she nodded,
he continued: "I am glad you have come. I am Jasper Tuller, one of the
stockholders in the iron works. Perhaps you have heard your husband
mention my name."
"I have, Mr. Tuller. What can I do for you?"
"I would like to see you in private"--this with a side glance at the
servant girl.
"Very well, step into the library, Mr. Tuller," and the fashionable
woman led the way to that apartment. Then the door was carefully
closed.
"Something is wrong," said the servant girl to herself. "I wonder what
it can be?"
She was of a decidedly inquisitive nature and not above playing the
eavesdropper. She tiptoed her way to the library door and listened
intently, while at the same time applying her eye to the keyhole.
"Now, what is it, Mr. Tuller?" asked Mrs. Bangs, after the door to the
library was shut.
"Briefly, it is this," said the visitor. "Your husband has certain
papers in his safe--papers which belong to another man,--Philip
Bartlett."
"Proceed."
"I warned him to destroy the papers but he has not done so. Now Mr.
Bartlett is going to come here, force open your safe, and take the
papers away."
"Come here--force our safe!" gasped the fashionable woman. "He dare not
do it."
"He is going to do it legally, I presume."
"You mean he will bring an officer of the law here?"
"Yes. If those papers are found it will look black for your husband,
for he has no right to have them in his possession."
"Oh, Mr. Tuller, what shall I do?"
"It is easy enough. Open the safe, take out the papers, and put them
where they cannot be found."
"Yes, but I do not know how to open the safe!"
"Don't you know the combination? Your husband said something about
that, but I felt there must be some mistake."
"I did know the combination once, but I believe I have forgotten it,"
went on the fashionable woman. She knitted her brows. "Let me see. It
was three 9's, I remember--9, 18, and 27."
"Yes! yes! And what else. See if you cannot think. It is so very
important--not alone for your husband, but also for myself and others."
"I am trying to think. Let me see--yes, there was a 2 and a 3 and then
another 2,--I mean so many times around."
"I believe I understand, Mrs. Bangs. You mean twice around to 9, three
times around to 18, twice to 27, and then off at 0."
"Yes, yes, that is it!" burst out the lady of the mansion. "How clever
some men are!" and she beamed on her visitor, who chanced to be well
dressed and not bad-looking.
"If that is correct, I'll soon have the safe open," said Jasper Tuller,
and walked over to where the strong box stood, in a corner of the
apartment.
The lady of the mansion hovered near while Jasper Tuller got down on
his knees and began to try the combination. He had to work the knob all
of a dozen times before the door of the safe came open.
"At last!" he murmured, as the contents of the safe stood revealed.
"Do you see the papers, or rather, do you know them?" asked Mrs. Bangs.
"I will know them--if I can lay eyes on them," was the reply, as Tuller
began to rummage around in the safe.
The papers were sorted out in different piles and he went through each
pile as rapidly as possible. Presently he found what he wanted.
"Here they are!" he cried in triumph, as he held them up.
CHAPTER XXIV
ANOTHER HIDING PLACE
Mrs. Bangs breathed a sigh of relief when she saw the papers.
"You are certain you are right, Mr. Tuller?" she asked, anxiously.
"Yes."
"Where did those papers come from?"
"Mr. Bartlett's desk at the iron works."
"As they were in my husband's safe I think you ought to give them to
me."
"I will do so, Mrs. Bangs. But you must put them where they cannot be
found."
"Trust me for that."
"The officers of the law may search the whole house."
"Dare they do such a thing?"
"Yes, but if everything is found square your husband can sue Bartlett
for damages," and Jasper Tuller chuckled loudly. "It will be a good
joke on him."
"There are no more of the papers?"
"I will take another look and make sure."
This was done, but no more papers belonging to Philip Bartlett could be
found. Then the safe was locked once more.
"I will put these papers away at once," said Mrs. Bangs and left the
library with the documents in her hand. She was gone all of five
minutes and came back smiling quietly to herself.
"Now they are safe," she said. "Nobody can possibly find them."
"I am glad to hear it," answered Tuller. "Now I had better be
going--before Bartlett appears. Don't say anything about my having been
here."
"I will not."
"And another thing, Mrs. Bangs. Pretend not to know how to open the
safe. That will compel them to break it open, and your husband's case
against Bartlett will be so much stronger."
"I shall follow your advice, Mr. Tuller. But look, somebody is coming
already!" went on the fashionable woman, as a carriage turned in from
the road and came toward the horse block.
"I must get out of this! Can I go by a back door?"
"To be sure," said Mrs. Bangs, and showed the way. As Tuller slipped
out and passed toward the back road where Randy had had an encounter
with Bob Bangs, there came a ring at the front door.
"Good-morning, Mrs. Bangs," said Mr. Bartlett. "Is your husband at
home?"
"He is not," answered the fashionable woman, coldly.
"I've got a search warrant for this place," said the constable, pushing
his way in, and he proceeded to read the document aloud.
"This is an outrage!" cried Mrs. Bangs, with assumed dignity. "An
outrage, and you shall pay dearly for it, Mr. Bartlett. My husband is
no thief, to steal your papers."
"Perhaps not," answered Philip Bartlett. "Nevertheless, I am going to
have his safe searched and also this house."
"Well, since you have the law on your side, go ahead. But you shall
answer to my husband for this indignity."
The constable began his work, and the safe opener approached the strong
box and inspected it.
"Can you open it?" asked Mr. Bartlett, anxiously.
"With ease," was the answer. "This is one of the old-style safes."
"How much will it cost?"
"Ten dollars."
"Then go ahead."
The safe opener was soon at work. He turned the knob around slowly,
listening intently in the meanwhile. He worked thus for perhaps ten
minutes, when the door to the safe came open without an effort.
Mrs. Bangs was disappointed. She had expected that the safe would have
to be blown open in the most approved burglar fashion, and was
wondering what bill for damages she could render.
"You must have known the combination," she said, tartly, to the safe
opener.
"This is my business," was the quiet answer.
The constable, with Mr. Bartlett's aid, went through all the papers in
the safe. Of course the all-important documents were not found.
"Well?" asked the lawyer, after a long wait.
"They are not here," replied Mr. Bartlett. He felt sick at heart over
his failure to bring the papers to light.
"Not here!"
"No, they must have been removed."
The library was searched, and then a look was taken through the whole
house. Mrs. Bangs followed the men everywhere.
"You shall suffer for this outrage," she said to Mr. Bartlett several
times.
"I presume I shall have to stand for what I have done," he answered,
meekly. "Of one thing I am certain, Mrs. Bangs. Your husband has those
papers, or else he has destroyed them."
"You can say what you please, Mr. Bangs is an honest man and a
gentleman," retorted the fashionable woman.
At last there was nothing left to do but to leave the mansion, which
Mr. Bartlett did with reluctance.
"I am afraid I have made a mess of it," he said to his lawyer. "I was
certain we would find those papers."
"I am afraid you have hurt your case, Mr. Bartlett," answered the legal
light, bluntly. "Bangs will now be on his guard and will take good care
to keep those papers away from you."
"Perhaps he has destroyed them."
"That is not unlikely, since it would do him small good to keep them."
"What do you advise me to do next?"
"You had better wait and see what develops," said the lawyer.
The safe opener and the constable were paid off and Philip Bartlett
returned to Albany in anything but a happy frame of mind. A day or two
later he called upon Randy, when the steamboat tied up at the dock for
the night.
"My fat is in the fire," he said to our hero, and told of his failure
to locate the missing documents.
"Mr. Bartlett, I am sure Mr. Bangs said the papers were in his safe!"
cried Randy. "He must have taken them out when he returned home."
"You can be a witness if the matter is brought into court?"
"Of course. I remember very well all I heard."
"Well, that is something," answered Philip Bartlett, hopefully.
He went home and the next day received a strong letter from Amos Bangs
denouncing him for the action he had taken. Part of the letter ran as
follows:
    "I should sue you for damages, only I do not wish to drag you into
    court on account of your wife and family. In the future you need
    expect no favors from me. I am done with you. If you want to sell
    your stock in the iron company I will give you the market price,
    not a cent more. Remember, I shall be on my guard against you in
    the future, and if you dare to molest me again you shall take the
    consequences."
"He will do what he can to ruin us," said Mrs. Bartlett when her
husband read the letter to her.
"I suppose so."
"What is the market price of the stock?"
"It has no regular market value now. Bangs will buy it for about ten
cents on the dollar."
"Oh, Philip, that is so little!"
"I'll not sell the stock," said Mr. Bartlett. "I'd rather lose every
cent than play into Amos Bangs's hands!"
CHAPTER XXV
A VICTORY FOR RANDY
One day Randy was out in Albany buying a new pair of shoes when he met
Rose Clare, who was also doing some shopping for her mother.
"Oh, Randy, how do you do!" cried the girl, running up and shaking
hands.
"Very well, Rose," he answered. "You look well."
"Oh, I am feeling splendid."
"It did you good to get out of New York."
"Indeed it did, and mamma is ever so much better too."
"I am glad to hear that. Do you like it at Captain Hadley's home?"
"Yes, mamma and Mrs. Hadley have become great friends."
"Do you go to school?"
"Yes. And, oh, I 'most forgot to tell you. I got a letter from New York
to-day. It was from another girl, one who lived in the house with us.
She says Bill Hosker has come back to that neighborhood."
"To stay?"
"She says he is around every night."
"Then I am going to hunt him up."
"Oh, Randy, please don't get into any more trouble," pleaded Rose.
"He has got to give back my money, or take the consequences."
"You know what a ruffian he is!"
"I will be on my guard this time, Rose, and maybe I'll take a friend
along," added our hero.
When he returned to the steamboat he told Jones about what he had
heard. Jones was now feeling very well once again, and he readily
volunteered to go with Randy and hunt up Hosker as soon as the boat got
to the metropolis. Then Pat Malloy got wind of what was up and said he
would go too.
"It's no use of going to the police wid such a mather," said the head
deckhand. "We'll bring the rascal to terms ourselves."
It was a clear, cool night when the landing was made at New York. The
deckhands hurried through their labors and then made off for the
neighborhood where Randy had been attacked.
"Here is the spot where I was first robbed," said our hero, and pointed
it out.
They walked around the neighborhood for nearly an hour, and were
growing somewhat disheartened when Randy gave a cry:
"There he is!"
"You are sure?" asked Jones.
"Yes."
"Let me speak to him first. Then we'll know there ain't no mistake,"
went on Jones.
Randy was willing and he and Malloy dropped behind.
Bill Hosker had just come out of a saloon and was wiping off his mouth
with the back of his hand. He turned down a side street.
"Hullo there, Bill Hosker!" cried Jones, pleasantly.
The bully and thief swung around on his heel and looked at the deckhand
in perplexity.
"Who are you?" he asked, roughly.
"Am I right? Is this Bill Hosker?"
"Dat's my handle."
"Then you are the man I want to see," said Jones and beckoned for the
others to come up.
When the street ruffian saw Randy his face changed color and he wanted
to run away, but Jones grabbed him and so did Malloy. As both were
powerful men, Hosker was as a kitten in their grasp.
"Youse fellers let me go!"
"I want you to give up the money you took from me," said Randy.
"I don't know you, young feller!"
"Yes, you do. Will you give up the money or not?"
"I ain't got no cash."
"Then you'll come to the station house with me."
"I bet yer I won't!" cried Bill Hosker.
He started to struggle when Jones hauled off and slapped him hard on
the right ear.
"Now be good, or I'll shove a few of your teeth down your throat," said
the deckhand. "This ain't no foolin' affair. Give up the boy's money
and be quick about it. If you don't give up I'll maul you so your own
mother won't know you!"
Bill Hosker was thoroughly alarmed. He did not mind going to the
station house but he did mind a good drubbing, and he saw that those
who held him were in no mood to be trifled with.
"Say, let us straighten dis t'ing out," said he at length.
"I want my money," answered Randy.
"Will yer drop de matter if I cough up de cash?"
"Yes."
"All right den. How much was it?"
"Four dollars and eighty cents."
The street ruffian pulled a small roll of bills from his pocket.
"Dare you are," he said, as he passed over five dollars. "Youse kin
keep de change."
Randy took the bills and stowed them away in his pocket.
"I'll give the change to some poor person," he said. "I want only what
is coming to me."
"Are ye done wid de rascal?" asked Malloy.
"Yes."
"Well, I'm not," answered the head deckhand.
"And neither am I," added Jones.
And then both hauled off and let Bill Hosker have it, right and left.
The street ruffian had one eye blackened and a tooth knocked out, and
went down in a heap more than dazed.
"Let that teach you a lesson," said Jones.
"It's better nor a month in jug," was Pat Malloy's comment. "The state
won't have to feed the blackguard."
Randy had already walked on and his friends joined him, and all hurried
back to the steamboat.
It was several minutes before Bill Hosker got up. "I'd like ter kill
dem fellers!" he muttered.
He hurried for the nearest saloon, where he tried to drown his troubles
in drink. In the saloon were several who knew him, and one man jeered
him because of the black eye. This brought on another quarrel, and as a
consequence both men were pushed out of the drinking resort. They
continued to fight on the sidewalk, until a policeman came along and
tried to stop them. Then Hosker attacked the officer, and as a
consequence was placed under arrest. The next day he was brought up in
court and sentenced to a year in prison for his misdeeds.
"I don't think he'll forget us," said Jones, as the steamboat was
reached.
"Maybe he will lay for us," said Randy.
"Well, we can kape our eyes open," put in Pat Malloy.
"I shall not visit that neighborhood again," said our hero. "Now I have
my money back I am satisfied."
"New York has altogether too many such toughs," put in Jones. "The
police ought to clean them all out. When I first came here I was
attacked in my boarding place on the Bowery."
"Were you robbed?"
"The fellow tried to rob me, but he didn't succeed. I played a neat
trick on him."
"What did you do?"
"I had a roll of bills and these I placed in an inside pocket. I also
had an imitation bank-bill--one of these advertisements you often see.
Well, I took a small roll of paper and put the imitation bill around
it, and put the roll in my vest pocket. The would-be thief got the roll
and ran off with it."
"He must have been angry when he saw how he had been duped," laughed
Randy.
"I didn't see that fellow again for nearly six months. Then I met him
on the steamboat where I was working. When he saw me he sneaked out of
sight in a hurry, I can tell you."
"Did you follow him up?"
"I tried to, but I didn't see him again until we were making a landing.
Then I tried to grab him, but he slipped me in a crowd and went ashore
as fast as his legs could carry him," concluded the deckhand.
CHAPTER XXVI
NEW TROUBLES
On the following day Randy noticed that Peter Polk seemed unusually
sour and thoughtful.
"Something has gone wrong with him, that is certain," thought our hero.
"I wonder what it can be?"
He did his best to keep out of the way of the purser and succeeded
until nightfall. But then, when he was carrying an extra heavy trunk,
Peter Polk got in his way and made him stumble and drop the piece of
baggage. The trunk was split open at one end and some of the contents
fell on the deck. It was a lady's trunk, filled with feminine wearing
apparel, and a good many passengers laughed.
"What do you mean by running into me, you blockhead!" cried the purser,
in a loud voice. "Why don't you look where you are going!"
"It was not my fault," answered Randy, warmly, not liking the man's
manner of address. "You made me drop that trunk."
"I did not. It was your own clumsiness."
"No, sir," said our hero, firmly; and a crowd began to collect.
"Don't dare to contradict me!" fumed the purser. "It was your fault,
and the damage shall come out of your wages."
"Mr. Polk, it was not my fault and I shall not stand for the damage
done."
"Ha! you defy me, eh, you cub! Go on about your work and I'll settle
with you later."
"What is the trouble here?" asked Captain Hadley, coming up through the
crowd.
"The blockhead of a boy dropped that trunk and broke it open."
"He ran into me and made me drop it," retorted our hero. He felt just
reckless enough to stand up for his rights, be the consequences what
they might.
"Put the trunk to one side, along with the other baggage," said the
captain. "We have no time to waste on this just now. Get that other
baggage ashore."
"My trunk!" shrieked the maiden lady, rushing forward. "Oh, who broke
my trunk?"
"It was an accident, madam."
"And all my dresses spilt out, too! I shall sue the steamboat company
for damages."
"We will settle with you, madam. I am sorry it happened," went on the
captain, soothingly.
"It was a mean thing to do," said the maiden lady and began to weep.
"Two of those dresses are brand-new."
"I guess they are not injured much."
Randy and the others had gone to work again. Our hero's thoughts were
busy.
"I believe Polk ran into me on purpose," he whispered to Jones.
"Maybe he wants to get you discharged," answered the other deckhand.
"I don't see why."
"He's down on you because of that Clare affair."
"Do you think so?"
"Sure. He hated it worse than poison, for the captain now knows just
how meanly he acted towards the widow."
The damaged trunk was passed over to a man on the dock and after some
excited talk the maiden lady accepted ten dollars, with which to have
the box repaired and her things put in proper order. It was more than
was actually coming to her and she went off secretly pleased.
In the meantime one of the passengers, an elderly man who traveled on
the line a great deal, went to Captain Hadley.
"What is it, Mr. DeLong?" asked the master of the vessel, kindly.
"I wish to speak to you about that trunk that was broken open."
"What of it?"
"I saw the accident. I was standing quite near at the time."
"Well?"
"I take an interest in that young deckhand of yours--he has done me
several small favors from time to time. It was not his fault that the
trunk was smashed, and I wanted you to know it."
"How did it happen?"
"Your purser got in the way and made the boy stumble. To me it looked
as if the purser did it on purpose."
"This is interesting, Mr. DeLong. But I don't see why the purser should
do such a thing."
"Neither do I, excepting he may have a grudge against the boy."
"Humph!" The captain grew thoughtful. "I will investigate this."
"Do so, and believe me, the boy is not to blame," said the elderly
passenger, and withdrew.
As soon as the end of the trip came, and the work on deck was finished,
Randy was called to the captain's office.
"Now what have you to say about that smashed trunk, Thompson?"
"I am not to blame, Captain Hadley," answered our hero, and told
exactly how the incident had occurred.
"Do you mean to say Mr. Polk tripped you up?"
"He ran into me and made me drop the trunk. If I hadn't dropped the
trunk I would have fallen down with the box on the top of me, and
gotten hurt."
"This is a strange statement, Thompson. Why should Mr. Polk run into
you?"
"He hates me, because through me your family learned how he had treated
Mrs. Clare when he helped to settle her husband's affairs."
This threw a new light on the matter and the captain nodded slowly and
thoughtfully.
"I did not think this of Mr. Polk."
"I think he hopes I'll lose my job," went on our hero. "He continually
calls me a blockhead, just to get me mad. I think he'd like to see me
lose my temper and pitch into him, and then he could get me my walking
papers."
"I think I will have to put the damage to the trunk down to the regular
expense account," said the captain at last. "In the future be more
careful, and keep out of Mr. Polk's way."
"I will certainly be careful, and I'll watch him, too," answered Randy.
Evidently Peter Polk was surprised to see our hero go to his work
whistling after his interview with the captain. He went to the master
of the vessel himself a little later.
"Is that boy going to pay for the trunk?" he asked, sourly.
"No, you can put it down to the regular expense account," answered
Captain Hadley.
"Humph! It was his fault."
"He says not."
"Did he blame it on me?"
"He did."
"It was his own fault."
"We won't argue the matter, Mr. Polk. Put it down to the regular
expenses and let it go at that," and Captain Hadley turned again to the
magazine he had been reading.
"Sticking up for the boy," muttered the purser, as he walked away.
"Well, I'll get that cub yet, see if I don't!"
A day passed and Randy stuck closely to his duties. He saw but little
of Peter Polk and gave the purser a wide berth. The purser watched the
youth narrowly, but said nothing.
"He has got it in for you," said Jones to Randy. "Take my advice and
keep your eyes open."
"I am watching him."
"He is a man I shouldn't trust nohow. He has got a bad pair of eyes. I
don't see how Mr. Shalley trusts him with all the boat's money
matters."
"Neither do I," answered our hero.
"He could walk off with thousands of dollars if he wanted to," said
Jones, and there the talk was dropped.
CHAPTER XXVII
