normal man, energetically devoted to his business, his 
pleasures, his friends, and comfortably in love with his 
wife. And if some considered his vigour in business to 
be lacking in mercy that vigour was always exercised 
within the law. He never transgressed the rules of war, 
but his headlong energy sometimes landed him close to 
the dead line. He had already breakfasted, when the 
earliest risers entered the morning room to saunter 
about the sideboards and investigate the simmering con- 
tents of silver-covered dishes on the warmers. 
The fragrance of coffee was pleasantly perceptible ; 
men in conventional shooting attire roamed about the 
room, selected what they cared for, and carried it to the 
table. Mrs. Mortimer was there consuming peaches that 
matched her own complexion ; Marion Page, always more 
congruous in field costume and belted j ackct than in any- 
thing else, and always, like her own hunters, minutely 
groomed, was preparing a breakfast for her own con- 
sumption with the leisurely precision characteristic of 
her whether in the saddle, on the box, or grassing her 
brace of any covey that ever flushed. 
Captain Voucher and Lord Alderdene discussed pros- 
pects between bites, attentive to the monosyllabic opinions 
of Miss Page. Her twin brothers, Gordon and Willis, 
shyly consuming oatmeal, listened respectfully and 
waited on their sister at the slightest lifting of her 
thinly arched eyebrows. 
 
Into this company sauntered Siward, apparently no 
worse for wear. For as yet the Enemy had set upon him 
no proprietary insignia save a rather becoming pallor 
and faint bluish shadows under the eyes. He strolled 
about, exchanging amiable greetings, and presently se- 
lected a chilled grape fruit as his breakfast. Opposite 
him Mortimer, breakfasting upon his own dreadful 
bracer of an apple soaked in port, raised his heavy in- 
flamed eyes with a significant leer at the iced grape 
fruit. For he was always ready to make room upon 
his own level for other men; but the wordless grin and 
the bloodshot welcome were calmly ignored, for as yet 
that freemasonry evoked no recognition from the pallid 
man opposite, whose hands were steady as though 
that morning's sun had wakened him from pleasant 
dreams. 
" The most difficult shot in the world," Alderdene 
was explaining, " is an incoming pheasant, sailing on 
a slant before a gale." 
"A woodcock in alders doing a jack-snipe twist is 
worse," grunted Mortimer, drenching another apple in 
port. 
" Yes," said Miss Page tersely. 
" Or a depraved ruffed cock-grouse in the short 
pines; isn't that the limit? " asked Mortimer of Siward. 
But Siward only shrugged his comment and glanced 
out through the leaded casements into the brilliant Sep- 
tember sunshine. 
Outside he could see Major Belwether, pink skinned, 
snowy chop whiskers brushed rabbit fashion, very volu- 
ble with Sylvia Landis, who listened absently, head 
partly averted. Quarrier in tweeds and gaiters, his 
morning cigar delicately balanced in his gloved fingers, 
strolled near enough to be within ear-shot; and when 
Sylvia's inattention to Major Belwether's observations 
became marked to the verge of rudeness, he came forward 
and spoke. But whatever it was that he said appeared 
to change her passive inattention to quiet displeasure, 
for, as Siward rose from the table, he saw her turn on 
her heel and walk slowly toward a group of dogs pre- 
sided over by some kennel men and gamekeepers. 
She was talking to the head gamekeeper when he 
emerged from the house, but she saw him on the terrace 
and gave him a bright nod of greeting, so close to an 
invitation that he descended the stone steps and crossed 
the dew-wet lawn. 
" I am asking Dawson to explain just exactly what 
a ' Shotover Drive ' resembles," she said, turning to in- 
clude Siward in an animated conference with the big, 
scraggy, head keeper. " You know, Mr. Siward, that 
it is a custom peculiar to Shotover House to open the 
season with what is called a Shotover Drive? " 
" I heard Alderdene talking about it," he said, smil- 
ingly inspecting the girl's attire of khaki with its but- 
toned pockets, gun pads, and Cossack cartridge loops, 
and the tan knee-kilts hanging heavily pleated over 
gaiters and little thick-soled shoes. He had never cared 
very much to see women afield, for, in a rare case where 
there was no affectation, there was something else inborn 
that he found unpleasant — something lacking about a 
woman who could take life from frightened wild things, 
something shocking that a woman could look, unmoved, 
upon a twitching, blood-soiled heap of feathers at her 
feet. 
Meanwhile Dawson, dog-whip at salute, stood knee 
deep among his restless setters, explaining the ceremony 
with which Mr. Ferrall ushered in the opening of each 
shooting season: 
 
" It's our own idee, Miss Landis," he said proudly ; 
" onc't a season Mr. Ferrall and his guests likes it for 
a mixed bag. 'Tis a sort of picnic, Miss; the guns is 
in pairs, sixty yards apart in line, an' the rules is, walk 
straight ahead, dogs to heel until first cover is reached ; 
fire straight or to quarter, never blankin' nor wipin' no 
eyes ; and ground game counts as feathers for the Shot- 
over Cup." 
" Oh ! It's a skirmish line that walks straight 
ahead.'' " said Siward, nodding. 
" Straight ahead. Sir. No stoppin', no turnin' for 
hedges, fences, water or rock. There is boats Tr deep 
water and fords marked and corduroy f'r to pass the 
Seven Dreens. Luncheon at one, Miss — an hour's rest 
— then straight on over hill, valley, rock, and river to 
the rondyvoo atop Osprey Ledge. You'll see the poles 
and the big nests, Sir. It's there they score for the cup, 
and there when the bag is counted, the traps are ready 
to carry you home again." . . . And to Siward: "Will 
you draw for your lady, Sir? It is the custom." 
" Are you my ' lady '.'' " he asked, turning to Sylvia. 
" Do you want me? " 
In the smiling lustre of her eyes the tiniest spark 
flashed out at him — a hint of defiance for somebod}', 
perhaps for Major Belwether who had taken consider- 
able pains to enhghten her as to Siward's condition the 
night before; perhaps also for Quarrier, who had 
naturally expected to act as her gun-bearer in emer- 
gencies. But the gaily veiled malice of the one had 
annoyed her, and the cold assumption of the other had 
irritated her, and she had, scarcely knowing why, turned 
her shoulder to both of these gentlemen with an indefi- 
nite idea of escaping a pressure, amounting almost to 
critical importunity. 
" I'm probably a poor shot? " she said, looking smil- 
ingly, straight into Siward's eyes. " But if you'll l;;ki' 
me " 
" I will with pleasure," he said ; " Dawson, do 
we draw for position ? Very well then " ; and he 
drew a slip of paper from the box offered by the head 
keeper. 
" Number seven ! " said Sylvia, looking over his 
shoulder. " Come out to the starting line, Mr. Siward. 
All the positions are marked with golf-discs. What 
sort of ground have we ahead, Dawson ? " 
" Kind o' stiff, Miss," grinned the keeper. " Pity 
your gentleman ain't drawed the meadows an' Sachem 
Hill line. Will you choose your dog. Sir ? " 
" You have your dog, you know," observed Sylvia 
demurely. And Siward, glancing among the impatient 
setters, saw one white, heavily feathered dog, straining 
at his leash, and wagging frantically, brown eyes fixed 
on him. 
The next moment Sagamore was free, devouring his 
master with caresses, the girl looking on in smiling 
silence; and presently, side by side, the man, the girl, 
and the dog were strolling off to the starting line where 
already people were gathering in groups, selecting dogs, 
fowling-pieces, comparing numbers, and discussing the 
merits of their respective lines of advance. 
Ferrall, busily energetic, and in high spirits, greeted 
them gaily, pointing out the red disc bearing their num- 
ber, seven, where it stood out distinctly above the distant 
scrub of the foreland. 
" You two are certainly up against it ! " he said, 
grinning. " There's only one rougher line, and you're 
in for thorns and water and a scramble across the back- 
bone of the divide ! " 
 
" Is it any good ? " asked Siward. 
" Good — if you've got the legs and Sylvia doesn't 
play baby " 
" I ? " she said indignantly. " Kemp, you annoy me. 
And I will bet you now," she added, flushing, " that 
your old cup is ours." 
" Wait," said Siward, laughing, " we may not shoot 
straight." 
" You will ! Kemp, I'll wager whatever you dare ! " 
" Gloves .'' Stockings ? — against a cigarette case ? " 
he suggested. 
" Done," she said disdainfully, moving forward 
along the skirmish line with a nod and smile for the 
groups now disintegrating into couples, the Page boys 
with Eileen Shannon and Rena Bonnesdel, Marion Page 
followed by Alderdene, Mrs. Vendenning and Major 
Belwether and the Tassel girl convoyed by Leroy Mor- 
timer. Farther along the hne, taking post, she saw 
Quarrier and Miss Caithness, Captain Voucher with Mrs. 
Mortimer, and others too distant to recognise, moving 
across country with glitter and glint of sunlight on 
slanting gun barrels. 
And now Ferrall was chmbing into his saddle beside 
his pretty wife, who sat her horse like a boy, the white 
flag lifted high in the sunshine, watching the firing line 
until the last laggard was in position. 
" All right, Grace ! " said Ferrall briskly. Down 
went the white flag ; the far-ranged line started into mo- 
tion straight across country, dogs at heel. 
From her saddle Mrs. Ferrall could see the advance, 
strung out far afield from the dark spots moving along 
the Fells boundary, to the two couples traversing the 
salt meadows to north. Crack ! A distant report came 
faintly over the uplands against the wind. 
" Voucher," observed Ferrall ; " probably a snipe. 
Hark ! he's struck them again, Grace." 
Mrs. Ferrall, watching curiously, saw Siward's gun 
fly up as two big dark spots floated up from the marsh 
and went swinging over his head. Crack ! Crack ! 
Down sheered the black spots, tumbling earthward out 
of the sky. 
" Duck," said Ferrall ; " a double for Stephen. 
Lord Harry! how that man can shoot! Isn't it a pity 
that " 
He said no more; his pretty wife astride her thor- 
oughbred sat silent, grey eyes fixed on the distant figures 
of Sylvia Landis and Siward, now shoulder deep in the 
reeds. 
" Was it — very bad last night ? " she asked in a 
low voice. 
Ferrall shrugged. " He was not offensive ; he 
walked steadily enough up-stairs. When I went into 
his room he lay on the bed as if he'd been struck by 
lightning. And yet — you see how he is this morn- 
ing?" 
" After a while," his wife said, " it is going to alter 
him some day — dreadfully — isn't it, Kemp? " 
" You mean — like Mortimer? " 
" Yes — only Leroy was always a pig." 
As they turned their horses toward the high-road 
Mrs. Ferrall said : " Do you know why Sylvia isn't shoot- 
ing with Howard ? " 
" No," replied her husband indifferently ; " do you ? " 
" No," She looked out across the sunlit ocean, grave 
grey eyes brightening with suppressed mischief. " But 
I half suspect." 
"What?" 
" Oh, all sorts of things, Kemp." 
 
" What's one of 'em ? " asked Ferrall, looking around 
at her ; but his wife only laughed. 
" You don't mean she's throwing her flies at Si- 
ward — now that you've hooked Quarrier for her! I 
thought she'd played him to the gaff " 
" Please don't be coarse, Kemp," said Mrs. Ferrall, 
sending her horse forward. Her husband spurred to her 
side, and without turning her head she continued : " Of 
course Sylvia won't be foolish. If they were only safely 
married ; but Howard is such a pill " 
" What does Sylvia expect with Howard's millions ? 
A man.?" 
Grace Ferrall drcw  bridle. " The curious thing is, 
Kemp, that she liked him." 
"Likes him.?" 
" No, liked him. I saw how it was ; she took his si- 
lences for intellectual meditation, his gallery, his library, 
his smatterings for expressions of a cultivated person- 
ality. Then she remembered how close she came to run- 
ning off with that cashiered Englishman, and that 
scared her into clutching the substantial in the shape 
of Howard. . . . Still, I wish I hadn't meddled." 
" Meddled how.? " 
" Oh, I told her to do it. We had talks until day- 
light. . . . She may marry him — I don't know — but if 
you think any live woman could be contented with a muff 
like that! " 
" That's immoral." 
" Kemp, I'm not. She'd be mad not to marry him ; 
but I don't know what I'd do to a man like that, if I were 
his wife. And you know what a terrific capacity for 
mischief there is in Sylvia. Some day she's going to love 
somebody. And it isn't likely to be Howard. And, oh, 
Kemp! I do grow so tired of that sort of thing' 
Do you suppose anybody will ever make decency a 
fashion ? " 
" You're doing your best," said Ferrall, laughing 
at his wife's pretty, boyish face turned back toward him 
over her shoulder ; " you're presenting your cousin and 
his millions to a girl who can dress the part " 
" Don't, Kemp ! I don't know why I meddled ! 
... I wish I hadn't " 
" I do. You can't let Howard alone ! You're per- 
fectly possessed to plague him when he's with you, and 
now you've arranged for another woman to keep it up for 
the rest of his lifetime. What does Sylvia want with a 
man who possesses the instincts and intellect of a coach- 
man? She is asked everywhere, she has her own money. 
Why not let her alone? Or is it too late? " 
" You mean let her make a fool of herself with 
Stephen Siward? That is where she is drifting." 
" Do you think " 
" Yes, I do. She has a perfect genius for selecting 
the wrong man ; and she's already sorry for this one. 
I'm sorry for Stephen, too; but it's safe for me to be," 
" She might make something of him." 
" You know perfectly well no woman ever did 
make anything of a doomed man. He'd kill her — I 
mean it, Kemp ! He would literally kill her with grief. 
She isn't like Leila Mortimer; she isn't like most girls 
of her sort. You men think her a rather stunning, 
highly tempered, unreasonable young girl, with a re- 
serve of sufficiently trained intelligence to marry the 
best our market offers — and close her eyes ; — a thor- 
oughbred with the caprices of one, but also with the 
grafted instinct for proper mating." 
" Well, that's all right, isn't it?" asked Ferrall. 
" That's the way I size her up. Isn't it correct? " 
 
" Yes, in a way. She has all the expensive training 
of the thoroughbred — and all the ignorance, too. She 
is cold-blooded because wholesome; a trifle sceptical be- 
cause so absolutely unawakened. She never experienced 
a deep emotion. Impulses have intoxicated her once or 
twice — as when she asked my opinion about running 
off with Cavendish, and that boy and girl escapade 
with Rivington; nothing at all except high mettle, the 
innocent daring lurking in all thoroughbreds, and a 
great deal of very red blood racing through that su- 
perb young body. But," Fen-all reined in to listen, 
" but if ever a man awakens her — I don't care who 
he is — you'll see a girl you never knew, a brand-new 
creature emerge with the last rags and laces of conven- 
tionality dropping from her; a woman, Kemp, heiress 
to every generous impulse, every emotion, every vice, 
every virtue of all that brilliant race of hers." 
" You seem to know," he said, amused and curious. 
"  know. Major Belwether told me that he had 
thought of Howard as an anchor for her. It seemed a 
pity — Howard with all his cold, heavy negative inertia. 
... I said I'd do it. I did. And now I don't know; 
I wish, almost wish I hadn't. 
" What has changed your ideas.'' " 
" I don't know. Howard is safer than Stephen Si- 
ward, already in the first clutches of his master-vice. 
Would you mate what she inherits from her mother and 
her m.other's mother, with what is that poor boy's heri- 
tage from the Siwards.'' " 
" After all," observed Ferrall dryly, " we're not in 
the angel-breeding business." 
" We ought to be. Every decent person ought to be. 
If they were, inherited vice would be as rare in this 
country as smallpox ! " 
" People don't inherit smallpox, dear." 
"Never mind! You know what I mean. In our 
stock farms and kennels, we weed out, destroy, extermi- 
nate hereditary weakness in everything. We pay the 
greatest attention to the production of all offspring 
except our own. Look at Stephen ! How dared his 
parents bring him into the world ? Look at Sylvia ! 
And now, suppose they marry ! " 
" Dearest," said Ferrall, " my head is a whirl and 
my wits are spinning like five toy tops. Your theo- 
ries are all right ; but unless you and I are prepared 
to abandon several business enterprises and take to the 
lecture platform, I'm afraid people are going to be 
wicked enough to marry whom they like, and the human 
race will be run as usual with money the favourite, and 
love a case of ' also-ran.' . . . By the way, how dared 
you marry me, knowing the sort of demon I am.'' " 
The gathering frown on Mrs. Ferrall's brow faded ; 
she raised her clear grey eyes and met her husband's 
gaze, gay, humourous, and with a hint of tenderness — 
enough to bring the colour into her pretty face. 
" You know I'm right, Kemp." 
" Always, dear. And now that we have the world 
off our hands fqr a few minutes, suppose we gallop.'' " 
But she held her horse to a walk, riding forward, 
grave, thoughtful, preoccupied with a new problem, only 
part of which she had told her husband. 
For that night she had been awakened in her bed to 
find standing beside her a white, wide-eyed figure, shiver- 
ing, limbs a-chill beneath her clinging lace. She had 
taken the pallid visitor to her arms and warmed her and 
soothed her and whispered to her, murmuring the thou- 
sand little words and sounds, the breathing magic moth- 
ers use with children. And Sylvia lay there, chilled, 
 
nerveless, silent, ignorant why her sleeplessness had 
turned to restlessness, to loneliness, to an awakening per- 
ception of what she lacked and needed and began to 
desire. For that sad void, peopled at intervals through 
her brief years with a vague mother- phantom, had, in the 
new crisis of her career, become suddenly an empty deso- 
lation, frightening her with her own utter isolation. Fill 
it now she could not, now that she needed that ghost of 
cliild-comfort, that shadowy refuge, that sweet shape 
she had fashioned out of dreams to symbolise a mother 
she had never known. 
Driven she knew not why, she had crept from her 
room in search of the still, warm, fragrant nest and the 
whispered reassurance and the caress she had never before 
endured. Yes, now she craved it, invited it, longed for 
safe arms around her, the hovering hand on her hair. 
Was this Sylvia? 
And Grace Ferrall, clearing her sleepy eyes, amazed, 
incredulous of the cold, child-like hands upon her 
shoulders, caught her in her arms with a little laugh and 
sob and drew her to her breast, to soothe and caress and 
reassure, to make up to her all she could of what is every 
child's just heritage. 
And for a long while Sylvia, lying there, told her 
nothing — because she did not know how — merely a 
word, a restless question half ashamed, barely enough 
to shadow forth the something stirring her toward an 
awakening in a new world, where with new eyes she 
might catch glimpses of those dim and splendidly misty 
visions that float through sunlit silences when a young 
girl dreams awake. 
And at length, gravely, innocently, she spoke of 
her engagement, and the worldly possibilities before her ; 
of the man she was to marry, and her new and unex- 
pected sense of loneliness in his presence, now that she 
had seen him again after months. 
She spoke, presently, of Siward — a fugitive ques- 
tion or two, offered indifferently at first, then with shy 
persistence and curiosity, knowing nothing of the sense- 
less form flung face downward across the sheets in a 
room close by. And thereafter the murmured burden 
of the theme was Siward, until one, heavy eyed, turned 
from the white dawn silvering the windows, sighed, and 
fell asleep ; and one lay silent, head half buried in its 
tangled gold, wide awake, thinking vague thoughts that 
had no ending, no beginning. And at last a rosy bar 
of light fell across the wall, and the warm shadows 
faded from corner and curtain ; and, turning on the 
pillow, her face nestled in her hair, she fell asleep. 
Nothing of this had Mrs. Ferrall told her husband. 
For the first time in her life had Sylvia suffered the 
caresses most women invite or naturally lavish; for the 
first time had she attempted confidences, failing because 
she did not know how, but curiously contented with the 
older woman's arms around her. 
There was a change in Sylvia, a great change 
stealing in upon her as she lay there, breathing like a 
child, flushed lips scarcely parted. Through the early 
slanting sunlight the elder woman, leaning on one arm, 
looked down at her, grey eyes very grave and tender 
— wise, sweet eyes that divined with their pure clairvoy- 
ance all that might happen or might fail to come to 
pass in this great change stealing over Sylvia. 
Nothing of this could her husband understand had 
she words to convey it. There was nothing he need 
 
understand except that his wife, meaning well, had med- 
dled and regretted. 
And now, turning in her saddle with a pretty ges- 
ture of her shoulders : 
" I meddle no more ! Those who need me may come 
to me. Now laugh at my tardy wisdom, Kemp ! " 
" It's no laughing matter," he said, " if you're going 
to stand back and let this abandoned world spin itself 
madly to the bow-wows " 
" Don't be horrid. I repent. The mischief take 
Howard Quarrier ! " 
" Amen ! Come on, Grace." 
She gathered bridle. " Do you suppose Stephen 
Siward is going to make trouble? " 
" Hov can he unless she helps him? Nonsense! 
All's well with Siward and Sylvia. Shall we gallop ? " 
All was very well with Siward and Sylvia. They had 
passed the rabbit-brier country scathless, with two black 
mallard, a jack-snipe, and a rabbit to the credit of their 
score, and were now advancing through that dimly lit 
enchanted land of tall grey alders where, in the sudden 
twilight of the leaves, woodcock after woodcock flut- 
tered upward twittering, only to stop and drop, trans- 
formed at the vicious crack of Siward's gun to fluffy 
balls of feather whirling earthward from mid-air. 
Sagamore came galloping back with a soft, unsoiled 
mass of chestnut and brown feathers in his mouth. 
Siward took the dead cock, passed it back to the keeper 
who followed them, patted the beautiful eager dog and 
signalled him forward once more. 
" You should have fired that time," he said to Sylvia 
— " that is, if you care to kill anything." 
" But I don't seem to be able to," she said. " It 
isn't a bit like shooting at clay targets. The twittering 
whirr takes me by surprise — it's all so charmingly sud- 
den — and my heart seems to stop in one beat, and I 
look and look and then — whisk ! the woodcock is gone, 
leaving me breathless " 
Her voice ceased; the white setter, cutting up his 
ground ahead, had stopped, rigid, one leg raised, jaws 
quivering and locking alternately. 
" Isn't that a stunning picture ! " said Siward in 
a low voice. " What a beauty he is — like a statue in 
white and blue- veined marble. You may talk, Miss Lan- 
dis; woodcock don't flush at the sound of the human 
voice as grouse do." 
" See his brown eyes roll back at us ! He wonders 
why we don't do something!" whispered the girl. 
" Look, Mr. Siward ! Now his head is moving — oh so 
gradually to the left ! " 
" The bird is moving on the ground," nodded Si- 
ward; " now the bird has stopped." 
" I do wish I could see a woodcock on the ground," 
she breathed. " Do you think we might by any chance? " 
Siward noiselessly sank to his knees and crouched, 
keen eyes minutely busy among the shadowy browns and 
greys of wet earth and withered leaf. And after a 
while, cautiously, he signalled the girl to kneel beside 
him, and stretched out one arm, forefinger extended. 
" Sight straight along my arm," he said, " as though 
it were a rifle barrel." 
Her soft cheek rested against his shoulder; a stray 
strand of shining hair brushing his face. 
"Under that bunch of fern," he whispered; "just 
the colour of the dead leaves. Do you see.'' . . . 
Don't you see that big woodcock squatted flat, bill 
pointed straight out and resting on the leaves.'' " 
 
After a long while she saw, suddenly, and an ex- 
quisite little shock tightened her fingers on Siward's 
extended arm. 
" Oh, the feathered miracle ! " she whispered ; " the 
wonder of its cleverness to hide like that ! You look and 
look and stare, seeing it all the while and not knowing 
that you see it. Then in a flash it is there, motionless, 
a brown-shaped shadow among shadows. . . . The dear 
little thing! . . . Mr. Siward, do you think — are you 
going to " 
" No, I won't shoot it." 
" Thank you. . . . Might I sit here a moment to 
watch it?" 
She seated herself soundlessly among the dead leaves ; 
he sank into place beside her, laying his gun aside. 
" Rather rough on the dog," he said with a grimace. 
" I know. It is very good of you, Mr. Siward . . . 
to do this for my pleasure. Oh — h ! Do you see ! Oh, 
the Httle beauty ! " 
The woodcock had risen, plumage puffed out, strut- 
ting with wings bowed and tail spread, facing the dog. 
The sudden pigmy defiance thrilled her. " Brave ! 
Brave ! " she exclaimed, enraptured ; but at the sound of 
her voice the bird crouched like a flash, large dark liquid 
eyes shining, long bill pointed straight toward them. 
" He'll fly the way his bill points," said Siward. 
" Watch ! " 
He rose ; she sprang lightly to her feet ; there came 
a whirring flutter, a twittering shower of sweet notes, 
soft wings beating almost in their very faces, a distant 
shadow against the sky, and the woodcock was gone. 
Quieting the astounded dog, gun cradled in the hol- 
low of his left arm, he turned to the girl beside him: 
" That sort of thing wins no cups," he said. 
" It wins something else, Mr. Siward, — my very 
warm regard for you." 
" There is no choice between that and the Shotover 
Cup," he admitted, considering her. 
" I — do you mean it? " 
" Of course I do, vigorously ! " 
" Then you are much nicer than I thought you. 
. . . And after all, if the price of a cup is the life of 
that brave little bird, I had rather shoot clay pigeons. 
Now you will scorn me I suppose. Begin ! " 
" My ideal woman has never been a life-taker," he 
said coolly. " Once, when I was a boy, there was a 
girl — very lovely — my first sweetheart. I saw her at 
the traps once, just after she had killed her seventh 
pigeon straight, ' pulling it down ' from overhead, you 
know — very clever — the little thing was breathing on 
the grass, and it made sounds — " He shrugged and 
walked on. " She killed her twenty-first bird straight ; 
it was a handsome cup, too." 
And after a silence, " So you didn't love her any 
more, Mr. Siward.'' " — mockingly sweet. 
They laughed, and at the sound of laughter the tall- 
stemmed alders echoed with the rushing roar of a cock- 
grouse thundering skyward. Crack ! Crack ! Whirl- 
ing over and over through a cloud of floating feathers, 
a heavy weight struck the springy earth. There lay 
the big mottled bird, splendid silky ruffs spread, dead 
eyes closing, a single tiny crimson bead twinkling like 
a ruby on the gaping beak. 
" Dead ! " said Siward to the dog who had dropped 
to shot ; " Fetch ! " And, signalling the boy behind, he 
relieved the dog of his burden and tossed the dead 
weight of ruffled plumage toward him. Then he broke 
his gun, and, as the empty shells flew rattling backward, 
 
slipped in fresh cartridges, locked the barrels, and 
walked forward, the flush of excitement still staining 
his sunburnt face. 
" You deal death mercifully," said the girl in a low 
voice. " I wonder what your ci-devant sweetheart would 
think of you." 
" A bungler had better stick to the traps," he as- 
sented, ignoring the badinage. 
" I am wondering," she said thoughtfully, " what 
I think of men who kill." 
He turned . sharply, hesitated, shrugged. " Wild 
things' lives are brief at best — fox or flying-tick, wet 
nests or mink, owl, hawk, weasel or man. But the death 
man deals is the most merciful. Besides," he added, 
laughing, " ours is not a case of sweethearts." 
" My argument is purely in the abstract, Mr. Si- 
ward. I am asking you whether the death men deal is 
more justifiable than a woman's gift of death.'' " 
" Oh, well, life-taking, the giving of life — there 
can be only one answer to the mystery ; and I don't know 
it," he replied smiling. 
" I do." 
" Tell me then," he said, still amused. 
They had passed swale after swale of silver birchef'. 
waist deep in perfumed fern and brake ; the big timber 
lay before them. She moved forward, light gun swung 
easily across her leather-padded shoulder; and on the 
wood's sunny edge she seated herself, straight young 
back against a giant pine, gun balanced across her flat- 
tened knees. 
" You are feeling the pace a Httle," he said, coming 
up and standing in front of her. 
" The pace.? No, Mr. Siward." 
" Are you a trifle — bored ? " She considered him 
in silence, then leaned back luxuriousl}', rounded arms 
raised, wrists crossed to pillow her head. 
" This is charmingly new to me," she said simply. 
"What.? Not the open.?" 
" No ; I have camped and done the usual roughing 
it with only three guides apiece and the champagne in- 
adequately chilled. I have endured that sort of hard- 
ship several times, Mr. Siward. . . . What is that furry 
bunch up there in that tall thin tree ? " 
" A raccoon," he said presently. " Can you see the 
foxy head peeping so slyly down at us? Look at Saga- 
more nosing the air in that droll blind mole-like way. 
He knows there's something furry up aloft somewhere; 
and he knows it's none of his business." 
They watched the motionless ball of fur in the crotch 
of a slim forest elm. Presently it uncurled, cautiously ; 
a fluffy ringed tail unfolded; the rounded furry back 
humped up, and the animal, moving slowly into the tan- 
gent foliage of an enormous oak, vanished amid bronzing 
leafy depths. 
In the silence the birds began to reappear. A jay 
screamed somewhere deep in the yellowing woods ; black- 
capped chickadees dropped from twig to twig, cheeping 
inquiringly. 
She sat listening, bright head pillowed in her arms, 
idly attentive to his low running comment on beast and 
bird and tree, on forest stillness and forest sounds, on 
life and the wild laws of life and death governing the 
great out-world 'twixt sky and earth. Sunlight and 
shadows moving, speech and silence, waxed and waned. 
A listless contentment lay warm upon her, weighting 
the heavy white lids. The blue of her eyes was very 
dark now — almost purple like the colour of the sea when 
the wind-flaws turn the blue to violet. 
 
" Did you ever hear of the ' Lesser Children '? " she 
asked. " Listen then : 
" ' Multitudes, multitudes, under the moon they stirred! 
The weaker brothers of our earthly breed; . . . 
... All came about my head and at my feet 
A thousand thousand sweet. 
With starry eyes not even raised to plead: 
Bewildered, driven, hiding, fluttering, mute! 
And I beheld and saw them one by one 
Pass, and become as nothing in the night.' 
" Do you know what it means ? 
" ' Winged mysteries of song that from the sky 
Once dashed long music down — ' 
" Do you understand ? " she asked, smiling. 
" ' Who has not seen in the high gulf of light 
What, lower, was a bird! 
She ceased, and, raising her eyes to his : " Do you 
know that plea for mercy on the lesser children w ho die 
all day to-day because the season opens for your pleasure, 
Mr. Siward?" 
" Is it a woodland sermon ? " he inquired, too 
politely. 
" The poem ? No ; it is the case for the prosecution. 
The prisoner may defend himself if he can." 
" The defence rests," he said. " The prisoner moves 
that he be discharged." 
" Motion denied," she interrupted promptly. 
Somewhere in the woodland world the crows were 
holding a noisy session, and she told him that was the 
jury debating the degree of his guilt. 
" Because you're guilty of course," she continued. 
" I wonder what your sentence is to be? " 
" I'll leave it to you," he suggested lazily. 
" Suppose I sentenced you to slay no more? " 
" Oh, I'd appeal " 
" No use ; I am the tribunal of last resort." 
" Then I throw myself upon the mercy of the court." 
" You do well, Mr. Siward. This court is very merci- 
ful. . . . How much do you care for bird murder? 
Ver much? Is there anything you care for more? 
Yes? And could this court grant it to you in com- 
pensation ? " 
He said, deliberately, roused by the level challenge 
of her gaze : " The court is incompetent to compensate 
the prisoner or offer any compromise." 
"Why, Mr. Siward?" 
" Because the court herself is already compromised 
in her future engagements." 
" But what has my — engagement to do with " 
" You offered compensation for depriving me of my 
shooting. There could be only one adequate compen- 
sation." 
" And that? " she asked, coolly enough. 
" Your continual companionship." 
" But you have it, Mr. Siward " 
" I have it for a day. The season lasts three months 
you know." 
" And you and I are to play a continuous vaudeville 
for three months? Is that your offer? " 
" Partly." 
" Then one day with me is not worth those many 
days of murder? " she asked in pretended astonishment. 
 
" Ask yourself why those many days would be doubly 
empty," he said so seriously that the pointless game 
began to confuse her. 
" Then " — she turned Hghtly from uncertain ground 
— " then perhaps we had better be about that matter of 
the cup you prize so highly. Are you ready, Mr. Si- 
ward.'' There is much to be killed yet — including time, 
you know." 
But the hinted sweetness of the challenge had 
aroused him, and he made no motion to rise. Nor did 
she. 
" I am not sure," he reflected, " just exactly what 
I should ask of you if you insist on taking away — " 
he turned and looked about him through the burnt 
gold foHage, " — if you took away all this out of my 
Hfe." 
" I shall not take it ; because I have nothing in ex- 
change to offer . . . you say," she answered impru- 
dently. 
" I did not say so," he retorted. 
" You did — reminding me that the court is already 
engaged for a continuous performance." 
" Was it necessary to remind you.'' " he asked with 
deliberate malice. 
She flushed up, vexed, silent, then looked directly 
at him with beautiful hostile eyes. " What do you mean, 
Mr. Siward.'' Are you taking our harmless, idle badi- 
nage as warrant for an intimacy unwarranted? " 
" Have I offended.'' " he asked, so impassively that 
a flash of resentment brought her to her feet, angry 
and self-possessed. 
" How far have we to go.'' " she asked quietly. 
He rose to his feet, turned, hailing the keeper, re- 
peating the question. And at the answer they both 
started forward, the dog ranging ahead through a dense 
growth of beech and chestnut, over a high brown ridge, 
then down, always down along a leafy ravine to the 
water's edge — a forest pond set in the gorgeous foliage 
of ripening maples. 
" I don't see," said Sylvia impatiently, " how we 
are going to obey instructions and go straight ahead. 
There must be a stupid boat somewhere ! " 
But the game-laden keeper shook his head, pulled 
up his hip boots, and pointed out a line of alder poles 
set in the water to mark a crossing. 
" Am I expected to wade.? " asked the girl anxiously. 
" This here," observed the keeper, " is one of the 
most sportin' courses on the estate. Last season I seen 
Miss Page go through it like a scared deer — the young 
lady, sir, that took last season's cup " — in explanation 
to Siward, who stood doubtfully at the water's edge, 
looking back at Sylvia. 
Raising her dismayed eyes she encountered his ; there 
was a little laugh between them. She stepped daintily 
across the stones to the water's edge, instinctively gath- 
ering her kilts in one hand. 
" Miles and I could chair you over," suggested 
Siward. 
" Is that fair — under the rules.? " 
" Oh, yes, Miss ; as long as you go straight," said 
the keeper. 
So they laid aside the guns and the guide's game- 
sack, and formed a chair with their hands, and, bearing 
the girl between them, they waded out along the driven 
alder stakes, knee-deep in brown water. 
Before them herons rose into heavy flapping flight, 
broad wings glittering in the sun; a diver, distantly 
afloat among the lily pads, settled under the water to 
 
his eyes as a submarine settles till the conning-tower is 
awash. 
Her arm, lightly resting around his neck, tightened 
a trifle as the water rose to his thighs ; then the faint 
pressure relaxed as they thrashed shoreward through 
the shallows, ankle deep once more, and landed among 
the dry reeds on the farther bank. 
Miles, the keeper, went back for the guns. Siward 
stamped about in the sun, shaking the drops from water- 
proof breeches and gaiters, only to be half drenched 
again when Sagamore shook himself vigorously. 
" I suppose," said Sylvia, looking sideways at Si- 
ward, " your contempt for my sporting accomplishments 
has not decreased. I'm sorry ; I donH like to walk in wet 
shoes . . . even to gain your approval." 
And, as the keeper came splashing across the shal- 
lows : " Miles, you may carry my gun. I shall not need 
it any longer " 
The upward roar of a bevey of grouse drowned her 
voice ; poor Sagamore, pointing madly in the blackberry 
thicket all unperceived, cast a dismayed glance aloft 
where the sunlit air quivered under the winnowing rush of 
heavy wings. Siward flung up his gun, heading a big 
quartering bird ; steadily the glittering barrels swept in 
the are of fire, hesitated, wavered ; then the possibility 
passed; the young fellow lowered the gun, slowly, 
gravely ; stood a moment motionless with bent head until 
the rising colour in his face had faded. 
And that was all, for a while. The astonished and 
disgusted keeper stared into the thicket; the dog lay 
quivering, impatient for signal. Sylvia's heart, which 
had seemed to stop with her voice, silenced in the gusty 
thunder of heavy wings, began beating too fast. For 
the ringing crack of a gun shot could have spoken no 
louder to her than the gUttering silence of the suspended 
barrels; nor any promise of his voice sound as the 
startled stillness sounded now about her. For he had 
made something a trifle more than mere amends for 
his rudeness. He was overdoing everything — a little. 
He stood on the thicket's edge, absently unloading 
the weapon, scarcely understanding what he had done 
and what he had not done. 
A moment later a far hail sounded across the up- 
lands, and against the sky figures moved distantly. 
" Alderdene and Marion Page," said Siward. " I 
believe we lunch yonder, do we not, Miles ? " 
They climbed the hill in silence, arriving after a few 
minutes to find others already at luncheon — the Page 
boys, eager, enthusiastic, recounting adventure by flood 
and field; Rena Bonnesdel tired and frankly bored and 
decorated with more than her share of mud ; Eileen Shan- 
non, very pretty, very effective, having done more exe- 
cution with her eyes than with the dainty fowling-piece 
beside her. 
Marion Page nodded to Sylvia and Siward with a 
crisp, business-like question or two, then went over to in- 
spect their bag, nodding approbation as Miles laid the 
game on the grass. 
" Eight full brace," she commented. " We have 
five, and an odd cock-pheasant — from Black Fells, I 
suppose. The people to our left have been blazing away 
like Coney Island, but Rena's guide says the ferns are 
full of rabbits that way, and Major Belwether can't hit 
fur afoot. You," she added frankly to Siward, " ought 
to take the cup. The birches ahead of you are full of 
woodcock. If you don't, Howard Quarrier will. He's 
into a flight of jack-snipe I hear." 
Siward's eyes had suddenly narrowed; then he 
 
laughed, patting Sagamore's cheeks. " I don't believe 
I shall shoot very steadily this afternoon," he said, 
turning toward the group at luncheon under the trees. 
" I wish Quarrier well — with the cup." 
" Nonsense," said Marion Page curtly ; " you are 
the cleanest shot I ever knew." And she raised her glass 
to him, frankly, and emptied it with the precision char- 
acteristic of her : " Your cup ! With all my heart ! " 
" I also drink to your success, Mr. Siward," said 
Sylvia in a low voice, lifting her champagne glass in the 
sunlight. " To the Shotover Cup — if you wish it." 
And as other glasses sparkled aloft amid a gay tumult 
of voices wishing him success, Sylvia dropped her voice, 
attuning it to his ear alone : " Success for the cup, if 
you wish it — or, whatever you wish — success ! " and she 
meant it very kindly. 
His hand resting on his glass he sat, smiling silent 
acknowledgment to the noisy generous toasts ; he turned 
and looked at Sylvia when her low voice caught his ear — 
looked at her very steadily, unsmiling. 
Then to the others, brightening again, he said a 
word or two, wittily, with a gay compliment well placed 
and a phrase to end it in good taste. And, in the little 
gust of hand-clapping and laughter, he turned again to 
Sylvia, smilingly, sajang under his breath : " As though 
winning the cup could compensate me now for los- 
ing it ! " 
She leaned involuntarily nearer : " You mean that 
you will not try for it? " 
" Yes." 
" That is not fair— to me ! '' 
"Why not.?" 
" Because — because I do not ask it of you." 
" You need not, now that I know your wish." 
" Mr. Siward, I — my wish " 
But she had no chance to finish ; already Rena Bon- 
nesdel was looking at them, and there was a hint of 
amused surprise in Eileen Shannon's mischievous eyes, 
averted instantly, with malicious ostentation. 
Then Marion Page took possession of him so exclu- 
sively, so calmly, that something in her cool certainty 
vaguely irritated Sylvia, who had never liked her. Be- 
sides, the girl showed too plainly her indifference to other 
people ; which other people seldom find amusing. 
" Stephen," called out Alderdene, anxiously counting 
the web loops in his khaki vest, " what do you call 
fair shooting at these damnable ruffed grouse.'' You 
needn't be civil about it, you know." 
" Five shells to a bird is good shooting," answered 
Siward. " Don't you think so. Miss Page.? " 
" You have a better score, Mr, Siward," said Marion 
Page with a hostile glance at Alderdene, who had not 
made good. 
" That was chance — and this year's birds. I've 
