
(to the SHULAMITE.)

  Yes, thou art fair, my love, yes, thou art fair. Thou hast dove's
  eyes.... Thou art all fair, my love. There is no spot on thee.

THE SHEPHERD

(without, in the garden, calling to the SHULAMITE and referring in
veiled terms to the seraglio and its dangers.)

  Come to me, my betrothed, come to me from Lebanon. Look at me from the
  top of Amana, from the summit of Shenir and Hermon, from the lion's den
  and the mountain of leopards.

(The SHULAMITE goes to a window and looks out.)

THE SHEPHERD

  You have strengthened my heart, my sister betrothed, you have
  strengthened my heart with one of thine eyes, with one of the curls that
  float on thy neck. How dear is thy love, my sister betrothed! Thy
  caresses are better than wine, and the fragrance of thy garments is
  sweeter than spice.

THE SHULAMITE

  Let my beloved come into his garden and eat its pleasant fruits.

THE SHEPHERD

  I am come into my garden, my sister betrothed, I have gathered my myrrh
  with my spice. I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey. I have drunk my
  wine with my milk.

(To the chorus.)

  Eat, comrades, drink abundantly, friends.

(The SHEPHERD and the chorus withdraw.)


ACT IV.

THE SERAGLIO.

THE SHULAMITE

(musing.)

  I sleep but my heart waketh. I heard the voice of my beloved. He
  knocked. Open to me! he said. My sister, my love, my immaculate dove,
  open to me, for my head is covered with dew, the locks of my hair are
  wet ... I rose to open to my beloved ... but he was gone. My soul
  faileth me when he spoke not. I sought him, but I could not find him. I
  called him but he did not reply.

(A pause. SHE relates the story of her abduction.)

  The watchman that went about the city found me, they smote me, they
  wounded me, and the keepers of the walls took away my veil.

(To the ODALISQUES.)

  I pray you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, tell him
  that I die of love.

CHORUS OF ODALISQUES

  In what is the superiority of thy lover, O pearl among women, that thou
  beseechest us so?

THE SHULAMITE

  My beloved's skin is white and ruddy. He is one in a thousand.... His
  eyes are as doves.... His cheeks are a bed of flowers.... He is
  charming. Such is my beloved, such is my dear one, O daughters of
  Jerusalem.

CHORUS OF ODALISQUES

  Whither is thy beloved gone, O pearl among women? Which way did he turn,
  that we may seek him with thee?

THE SHULAMITE

  My beloved is gone from the garden.... But I am his and he is mine. He
  feedeth his flocks among lilies.

(Enter SOLOMON.)

(The SHULAMITE looks scornfully at him.)

SOLOMON

  Thou art beautiful as Tirzah, my love, and comely as Jerusalem, but
  terrible as an army in battle. Turn thine eyes away. They trouble me....

THE SHEPHERD

(from without.)

  There are sixty queens, eighty favorites, and numberless young girls.
  But among them all my immaculate dove is unique, she is the darling of
  her mother. The young girls have seen her and called her blessed. The
  queens and the favorites have praised her.

THE CHORUS

(astonished at the SHULAMITE'S scorn of the King.)

  Who is it that is beautiful as Tirzah but terrible as an army in battle?

THE SHULAMITE

(impatiently turning her back, and relating again her abduction.)

  I went down into the garden of nuts, to see the green plants in the
  valley, to see whether the vine budded, and the pomegranates were in
  flower. But before I was aware of it, I was among the chariots of my
  princely people.

THE CHORUS

  Turn about, turn again, O Shulamite, that we may see thee.

A DANCER

  What will you see in the Shulamite whom the King has compared to an
  army?

SOLOMON

(to the SHULAMITE.)

  How beautiful are thy feet, prince's daughter,... How fair and how
  pleasant art thou....

THE SHULAMITE

(impatiently as before.)

  I am my beloved's and he is sighing for me.

(Exit SOLOMON. Enter the SHEPHERD.)

THE SHULAMITE

(hastening to her lover.)

  Come, my beloved, let us go forth to the fields, let us lodge in the
  villages. We will rise early and see if the vine flourishes and the
  grape is ripe and the pomegranates bud. There will I caress thee. The
  love-apples perfume the air and at our gates are all manner of rich
  fruit, new and old, which I have kept for thee, my beloved. Oh, that
  thou wert my brother, that, when I am with thee without, I might kiss
  thee and not be mocked at. I want to take and bring thee into my
  mother's house. There thou shalt instruct me and I will give thee spiced
  wine and the juice of my pomegranates.

(Falling in his arms and calling to the ODALISQUES.)

  His left hand is under my head and his right hand doth embrace me.

THE SHEPHERD

(to the chorus.)

  I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that ye stir not nor awake my
  beloved till she will.


ACT V.

THE VILLAGE OF SHULAM.

(The SHULAMITE, who has escaped from the seraglio is carried in by her
lover.)

CHORUS OF VILLAGERS

  Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness, leaning upon her
  beloved?

THE SHEPHERD

(to the SHULAMITE.)

  I awake thee under the apple tree.

(He points to the house.)

  There thou wert born.

THE SHULAMITE

  Set me as a seal upon thy heart, as a seal upon thine arm; for love is
  strong as death, jealousy cruel as the grave; the flashes thereof are
  flashes of fire, a very flame of the Lord. But many waters cannot quench
  love, nor can the floods drown it. The man who seeks to purchase it
  acquires but contempt.


EPILOGUE.

A COTTAGE AT SHULAM.

FIRST BROTHER OF THE SHULAMITE

(thinking of a younger sister whom he would sell when she is older.)

  We have a little sister, still immature. What shall we do with her when
  she is spoken for?

SECOND BROTHER

  If by then she is comely, we will get for her silver from a palace. If
  she is not comely, we will get the value of cedar boards.

THE SHULAMITE

(ironically intervening.)

  I am comely, yet I made them let me be.

FIRST BROTHER

(significantly.)

  Solomon had a vineyard at Baal-hamon. He leased it to farmers each of
  whom was to pay him a thousand pieces of silver.

THE SHULAMITE

  But my vineyard which is mine I still have.

(Laughing.)

  A thousand pieces for thee, Solomon, and two hundred for the others.

(At the door the SHEPHERD appears. Behind him are comrades.)

THE SHEPHERD

  Fair one, that dwelleth here, my companions hearken to thy voice, cause
  me to hear it.

THE SHULAMITE

  Hasten to me, my beloved. Hasten like a roe or a young hart on the
  mountains of spices.




III

APHRODITE URANIA


Greece had many creeds, yet but one religion. That was Beauty. Israel
believed in hate, Greece in love. In Judæa the days of the righteous were
long. In Greece they were brief. Whom the gods loved died young. The gods
themselves were young. With the tribes that took possession of the
Hellenic hills they came in swarms. Sprung from the depths of the archaic
skies, they were sombre and impure. When they reached Olympus already
their Asiatic masks had fallen. Hecate was hideous, Hephæstos limped, but
among the others not an imperfection remained. Divested of attributes
monstrous and enigmatic, they rejuvenated into divinities of joy. Homer
said that their laughter was inextinguishable. He joined in it. So did
Greece. The gayety of the immortals was appreciated by a people that
counted their years by their games.

As the tribes dispersed the gods advanced. Their passage, marked here by a
temple, there by a shrine, had always the incense of legends. These Homer
gathered and from them formed a Pentateuch in which dread was replaced by
the ideal. Divinities, whom the Assyrian priests barely dared to invoke by
name, and whose mention by the laity was forbidden, he displayed, luminous
and indulgent, lifting, as he did so, the immense burden of mystery and
fear under which humanity had staggered. Homer turned religion into art,
belief into poetry. He evolved a creed that was more gracious than
austere, more æsthetic perhaps than moral, but which had the signal merit
of creating a serenity from which contemporaneous civilization proceeds.
Greece to-day lies buried with her gods. She has been dead for twenty
centuries and over. But the beauty of which she was the temple existed
before death did and survived her.

To Homer beauty was an article of faith. But not the divinities that
radiated it. He laughed at them. Pythagoras found him expiating his mirth
in hell. A later echo of it bubbled in the farce of Aristophanes. It
reverberated in the verses of Euripides. It rippled through the gardens of
Epicurus. It amused sceptics to whom the story of the gods and their
amours was but gossip concerning the elements. They believed in them no
more than we do. But they lived among a people that did. To the Greeks the
gods were real, they were neighborly, they were careless and caressing,
subject like mortals to fate. From them gifts came, desires as well. The
latter idea, precocious in its naïve psychology, eliminated human
responsibility and made sin descend from above.

Olympus was not severe. Greece was not, either. The solemnity of other
faiths had no place in her creed, which was free, too, of their baseness.
It was not Homer only, but the inherent Hellenic love of the beautiful
that, in emancipating her from Orientalisms, maintained her in an attitude
which, while never ascetic, occasionally was sublime. The tradition of
Orpheus and Eurydice, the fable of Psyche and her god, had in them love,
which nowhere else was known. They had, too, something of the high
morality which the Iliad and the Odyssey depict.

In the Iliad a thousand ships are launched for the recovery of an
abducted wife. The subject is equivocal, but concerning it there is not a
dubious remark. In the Iliad as in the Odyssey love rested on two
distinct principles: First, the respect of natural law; second, the
respect of lawful marriage. These principles, the gods, if they willed,
could abolish. When they did, their victims were not blamed, they were
pitied. Christianity could not do better. Frequently it failed to do as
well. But the patricists were not psychologists and the theory of
determinism had not come.

Aphrodite had. With love for herald, with pleasure for page, with the
Graces and the Hours for handmaids, she had come among the dazzled
immortals. Hesiod told about it. So did de Musset.

     Regrettez-vous le temps où le Ciel, sur la terre,
     Marchait et respirait dans un peuple de dieux?
     Où Vénus Astarté, fille de l'onde amère,
     Secouait, vierge encor, les larmes de sa mère,
     Et fécondait le monde en tordant ses cheveux!

But Astarte was a stone which Aphrodite's eyes would have melted. It may
be that they did. The worship of the Dea Meretrix was replaced by the
purer rites of this purer divinity, unconscious as yet of the names and
shames of Ishtar.

The Aphrodite whom Homer revealed differed from that of Hesiod. In Hesiod
she was still a novice, but less austere than she afterward appeared in
the conceptions of Pheidias. The latter succeeded in detaining the
fluidity of the gods. He reproduced them in stone, sometimes in gold,
always in beauty. He created a palpable Olympus. To die without seeing it
was thought a great calamity. The universal judgment of antiquity was that
art could go no higher. At the sight of the Pheidian Zeus, a barbarian
brute, Æmilius Paulus, the Roman invader and victor, shrank back, awe
struck, smitten with sacred terror. The image was regarded less as a
statue than as an actual revelation of the divine. To have been able to
display it, the general assumption was that either Pheidias had ascended
above, or else that Zeus had descended to him. The revelation of Aphrodite
Urania which he effected for her temple near the Cerameicus must have been
equally august, the celestial in its supremest expression.

Thereafter the decadence of the goddess began. Previously she had ruled
through her perfection. Subsequently, though the perfection persisted, the
stamp of divinity ceased. In lieu of the goddess was a very pretty woman.
If that woman did not, as Hesiod claimed, issue from the sea, she at least
emerged from marble. The statues differed. Sometimes there were doves on
them, sometimes there was a girdle embroidered with caresses and kisses,
at times in the hand was an arrow, at others a lance, again Aphrodite was
twisting her hair. But chiefly she was assassinated, not like Lais by
jealous wives, but by sheer freedom of the chisel. It was these profaner
images that inflamed Phædra and Pasiphae. Among them was Praxiteles'
Cnidian Aphrodite, a statue which a king tried vainly to buy and a madman
offered to marry. The Pheidian Aphrodite belonged to an epoch in which art
expressed the eternal; the Praxitelean, to a period in which it suggested
the fugitive. One was beauty and also love, the other was beauty and
passion.

Originally both were one. It was only the idea of her that varied. Each
Hellenic town, each upland and valley had its own faiths, its own myths.
Uniformity concerning them was not doctrinal, it was ritualistic. Then,
too, Aphrodite, Apollo, Zeus himself, the whole brilliant host of Olympus
were once monsters of Asia. However august they had since become, memories
and savors of anterior rites followed in their ascensions. These things
incited them to resume their primal forms. It was pleasurably that they
acceded. Therein is the simple mystery of their double lives, the reason
why Aphrodite could be degrading and ideal, celestial and vulgar, yet
always Philommeis, Queen of Smiles. In Cythera and Paphos she was but a
fresh avatar of Ishtar. In other sites she resembled the picture that
Dante made of Fortune and which an artist detached.

"Dante," said Saint-Victor, "displays Fortune turning her wheel,
distributing good and evil, success and failure, prosperity and want.
Mortals upbraid and accuse her. 'But these she does not hear. Tranquil
among primordial things, she turns her sphere and ineffably rejoices.' So
does Venus indifferently dispense high aims and viciousness. Curses do not
reach her, insults do not touch her, the passions she has unchained
cannot rise to where she is. In her high place tranquilly she turns her
sphere of stars.

     'Volge sua sfera e beata si gode.'"

It was not that serene divinity, it was the more human Aphrodite of
Hesiod, that disturbed the Argive Helen. The story of her, the story of
the golden fruit tossed into Olympus with its tag, To the Fairest, the
rivalries that resulted, the decision of Paris, corrupt yet just, his
elopement with Helen, and the war of the world which ensued, these
episodes the hexameters of the Iliad unfold.

There, drenched with blood and bathed in poetry, is Helen. There, too, is
Paris on his scarlet prow. With them you go from Lacedæmon, past the
faint, fair rose of Ida's snow, over the green plain of waters, right to
the gates of Ilium and within, and see how each man stopped and stood and
mused at Helen's face and her undreamed-of beauty.

Her beauty was no doubt surprising. She trailed admiration but also
respect. Homer relates that the seated sages rose at her approach. They
did not blame her for the conflagration that her face had caused. They
knew, as Priam knew, that responsibility rested not with the woman but
with the gods. Perhaps she was not responsible. As in an allegory of
beauty which itself is for all and yet for none, already she had passed
from hand to hand. When she was but a child she had been abducted.
Theseus took her from a temple in which she was dancing. Recovered by her
brothers, Achilles got her from them but only to cede her to Patroclus.
Later she became the wife of Menelaus. Subsequently Aphrodite gave her to
Paris. At that she rebelled. But no mortal may resist the divine. Helen
accompanied Paris to Troy, where, during the war that was waged for her,
he was killed and she remained in his brother's arms until recovered by
Menelaus.

Quintus Smyrnæus[4] represented Menelaus, sword in hand, rushing violently
at her. A glance of her eyes disarmed him. In the clatter of the falling
sword was love's reawakening. Then presently, as an honored wife, she
returned to Lacedæmon. Even there her adventures continued. Achilles,
haunted in Hades by the memory of her beauty, escaped, and in mystic
nuptials conceived with her a winged child, Euphorion. Clearly, as the
sages thought and Priam believed, she could not have been responsible. Nor
was she so regarded. The various episodes of her career formed a sort of
sacred legend for the polluting of which a poet, Stesichorus, was blinded.
The blindness of Homer, Plato attributed to the same cause. To degrade
beauty is a perilous thing. To preserve it, to make the legend more
sacred still, it was imagined that not Helen, but a phantom of her,
accompanied Paris to Troy, and that it was for a phantom that men fought
and died.

A thousand years later Apollonius of Tyana happened on that romance.
Apollonius knew all languages, including that of silence, and all things,
save the caresses of women. He knew, too, how to summon the dead. To
verify the story, he evoked the shade that once before for Helen had
emerged from hell. Apollonius asked: "Is it true that Helen went to Troy?"
"We thought so," Achilles answered, "and we fought to get her back. But
she was actually in Egypt. When we discovered that we fought for Troy
itself."[5]

Achilles may have been right. In the Odyssey, in connection with Helen,
mention is made of nepenthe. Nepenthe was an Egyptian drug that dispelled
the memory of whatever is sad. Helen had much to forget and probably did,
even without assistance. She was the personification of passivity. Her
little rebellion at Aphrodite was very brief. But, assuming the nepenthe,
it has been assumed also that in it was the secret of the spell with which
she so promptly disarmed Menelaus. To modern eyes his attitude is
ambiguous. His complaisance has an air of complicity. But Menelaus lived
in an heroic age. Moreover, when Sarah vacated the palace of the
Pharaohs, the complaisance of Abraham was the same.

In both instances the principle involved was one of ownership. In
patriarchal and heroic days woman was an asset. She was the living money
of the period. Agamemnon, in devising how he might calm the anger of
Achilles, offered him a quantity of girls. They were so much current coin.
When stolen, recovery was the owner's chief aim. What may have happened in
the interim was a detail, better appreciable when it is remembered that
booty was treated, as Helen at Ilium was treated, in the light of Paris'
lawful wife; for robbery at that time was a highly legitimate mode of
acquiring property, provided and on condition that the robber and the
robbed were foes. The idea of enticing the property was too complicated
for the simplicity of those days. It was in that simplicity, together with
the belief that whatever occurred was attributable to the gods, that the
morality of the epoch resided.

In the story of Paris and Helen the morality of Aphrodite is as ambiguous
as the attitude of Menelaus. She has the air of an entremetteuse. But
her purpose was not to favorize frailty. Her purpose was the exercise of
her sovereign pleasure. Paris, in adjudging to her the prize of beauty,
became the object of her special regard, his people became her people,
their enemies her own. The latter prevailed, but that was because
Destiny--to whose power the gods themselves had to yield--so willed.

In the Odyssey the morality of the Iliad is enhanced. The enchantments
of Calypso, the sorceries of Circe, the seductions of sirens, long years
themselves, wanderings over perilous seas, dangers, hardships,
temptations, failed to divert Odysseus from his memories of Penelope, who
in turn resisted every suitor for his sake. When the later philosophy of
Greece inquired what was woman at her best, it answered its own question
in looking back at her. A thousand years after she had been sung, Horace,
writing to Lollius, said: "I have been re-reading the poet of the Trojan
War. No one has told so well as he what is noble and what is base." St.
Basilius, writing later still, declared that the Homeric epics were a
perpetual praise of right. The fact, he noted, was particularly obvious in
the passage in which Odysseus confronted Nausicaa.

That little princess, historically the first who washed household linen in
public, was, when so engaged, surprised by the shipwrecked hero. Instead
of being alarmed at the appearance of this man whom the waters had
disrobed, she was conscious only of a deep respect. St. Basilius gives the
reason. In default of clothing Homer had dressed him in virtue.[6]

The deduction is so pleasant that the views of the saint concerning Circe
and Calypso would be of interest. But they are unrecorded. It may be that
he had none. The enchantresses themselves with their philters and
enthralments are supposedly fabulous. Yet in the Homeric account of their
seas, once thought to be but a dream of fairyland, mariners have found a
log book of Mediterranean facts so accurate that a pilot's guide is but a
prose rendering of its indications.[7] As with the seas so with the
sirens. Their enchantments were real.

At an epoch when women generally were but things, too passively
indifferent and too respectfully obedient to care to attempt, even could
they have divined how, to captivate, Circe and Calypso displayed the then
novel lures of coquetry and fascination. In the charm of their voices, in
the grace of their manners, in the harmony of their dress, in the perfume
of their lips, in their use of unguents, in their desire to please joined
to the high art of it, was a subtlety of seduction so new and unimagined
that it was magical indeed. In the violent Iliad, women, hunted like
game, were but booty. In the suaver Odyssey was their revenge. It was
they who captured and detained, reducing the hardiest heroes into servants
of their pleasure. It is reasonable that their islands should have been
thought enchanted and they enchantresses.

The story of their spells, of their refinements, and of their consequent
dominations, exerted gradually an influence wide and profound. Women began
to conjecture something else than marriage by right of might. Into the
conjecturings came attempts at emancipation that preoccupied husbands and
moralists. Hesiod denounced the new ambitions, and, finding denunciation
perhaps ineffective, employed irony. He told of Pandora who, fashioned
first out of clay, afterward adorned with a parure of beauty, was then
given perfidy, falsehood and ruse, that, in being a delight to man, she
should be also a disaster.[8]

The picture, interesting in its suggestion of Eve, was originally perhaps
a Chaldæan curio, imported by Phoenician traders. Its first Hellenic
setting was due probably to Orpheus, the great lost poet of love, whose
songs charmed all nature, all hell as well. From him, through problematic
hands, it drifted to Hesiod, as already his lyre had drifted to Lesbos.
The picture persisted, the lyre as well. To the latter the Mitylenes
attributed the wonder of the beauty of their nightingales, chief among
whom was Sappho.




IV

SAPPHO


Sappho was contemporaneous with Nebuchadnezzar. While he was chastening
the Jews, she was creating love. In her day the condition of Hellenic
women differed from what it had been. Generally they were shut apart,
excluded from any exercise of their possible minds, restricted to strict
domesticity. At Athens a girl might not so much as look from a window. If
she did, she saw nothing. The window did not give on the street. But in
the temples the candor of her eyes was violated. In the festivals of Ceres
the modesty of her ears was assailed. Otherwise, she was securely guarded.
If, to her detriment, she eluded guardianship, she could be sold. With
marriage she entered into a form of superior slavery. When her husband's
friends supped with him, she was not permitted to be present. Without
permission she could not go from one apartment to the next. Without
permission she could not go out. When she did, it was at her husband's
side, heavily veiled. With his permission, she might go to the theatre,
but only when tragedy was given. At comedies and at the games she was
forbidden to assist. In case of disobedience the penalty was death.
Pleasures and privileges were limited to housekeeping and motherhood. At
the immanence of the latter her surroundings were embellished with
beautiful trifles, with objects of art, with whatever influences might
prenatally affect, and, in affecting, perfect the offspring. Otherwise,
her existence was simple and severe. The peplos tissue of gold was not for
her. Garments colored or flowered were not, either. These were reserved
for her inferiors and superiors, for the hierodules of Aphrodite Pandemos
and the images of the gods. Though her robes were simple, they had to be
heavy. If light, a fine was incurred. If they did not hang properly,
another fine was imposed. If, to the detriment of her husband, a man
succeeded in approaching her, she could be killed or merely repudiated; in
the latter case, she could no longer enter a temple, any one might insult
her. Still a slave, she was an outcast as well.

Such were the laws. Their observance is a different matter. In
Aristophanes and the comic poets generally Athenian women of position were
dissolute when they were not stupid, and usually they were both. They may
have been. But poets exaggerate. Besides, divorce was obtainable. Divorce
was granted on joint request. On the demand of the husband it could be
had. In the event of superscandalous conduct on his part, it was granted
to the wife, provided she appeared before a magistrate and personally
demanded it. The wife of the wicked and winning Alcibiades went on such an
errand. Alcibiades met her, caught her in his arms and, to the applause of
the wittiest people in the world, carried her triumphantly home.
Aristophanes and Alcibiades came in a later and more brilliant epoch. In
the days of Sappho severity was the rigorous rule, one sanctioned by the
sentiment of a people in whose virile sports clothing was discarded, and
in whose plays jest was too violent for delicate ears.

In Sparta the condition of women was similar, but girls had the antique
freedom which Nausicaa enjoyed. Destined by the belligerent constitution
of Lacedæmon to share, even in battle, the labors of their brothers, they
devoted themselves, not to domesticity, but to physical development. They
wrestled with young men, raced with them, swam the Eurotas, preparing
themselves proudly and purely to be mothers among a people who destroyed
any child that was deformed, fined any man that presumed to be stout,
forced debilitated husbands to cede their wives to stronger arms, and who,
meanwhile, protected the honor of their daughters with laws of which an
infraction was death.

The marriage of Spartan girls was so arranged that during the first years
of it they saw their husbands infrequently, furtively, almost
clandestinely, in a sort of hide-and-go-seek devised by Lycurgus in order
that love, instead of declining into indifference, should, while
insensibly losing its illusions, preserve and prolong its strength.
Otherwise, the Spartan wife became subject to the common Hellenic custom.
Her liberty departed with her girlhood. Save her husband, no man might see
her, none could praise her, none but he could blame. Her sole jewels were
her children. Her richest garments were stoicism and pride. "What dower
did you bring your husband?" an Athenian woman asked of one of them.
"Chastity," was the superb reply.[9]

Lesbos differed from Lacedæmon. The Spartans declared that they knew how
to fight, not how to talk. They put all their art into not having any. The
Lesbians put theirs into the production of verse. At Mitylene, poetic
development was preferred to physical culture. The girls there thought
more of immortality than of motherhood. But the unusual liberty which they
enjoyed was due to influences either Boeotian or Egyptian, perhaps to
both. Egypt was neighborly. With Lesbos, Egypt was in constant
communication. The liberty of women there, as generally throughout the
morning lands, religion had procured. Where Ishtar passed, she fevered,
but also she freed. Beneath her mantle women acquired a liberty that was
very real. On the very sites in which Islâm was to shut them up,
Semiramis, Strantonice, Dido, Cleopatra, and Zenobia appeared. Isis, who
was Ishtar's Egyptian avatar, was particularly liberal. Among the cities
especially dedicated to her was Naucratis.

Charaxus, a brother of Sappho, went there, met Rhodopis, a local beauty,
and fell in love with her. Charaxus was a merchant. He brought wine to
Egypt, sold it, returned to Greece for more. During one of his absences,
Rhodopis, while lolling on a terrace, dropped her sandal which, legend
says, a vulture seized, carried away, and let fall into the lap of King
Amasis. The story of Cinderella originated there. With this difference:
though the king, after prodigal and impatient researches, discovered the
little foot to which the tiny sandal belonged, Rhodopis, because of
Charaxus, disassociated herself from his advances. Subsequently a young
Naucratian offered a fortune to have relations with her. Because of
Charaxus, Rhodopis again refused. The young man dreamed that she
consented, dreamed that she was his, and boasted of the dream.
Indignantly Rhodopis cited him before the magistrates, contending that he
should pay her as proposed. The matter was delicate. But the magistrates
decided it with great wisdom. They authorized Rhodopis to dream that she
was paid.

Rumors of these and of similar incidents were probably reported in Lesbos
and may have influenced the condition of women there. But memories of
Boeotia from which their forefathers came was perhaps also a factor.
Boeotia was a haunt of the muses. In the temple to them, which Lesbos
became, the freedom of Erato was almost of necessity accorded to her
priestesses.

Lesbos was then a stretch of green gardens and white peristyles set
beneath a purple dome. To-day there is no blue bluer than its waters.
There is nothing so violet as the velvet of its sky. With such accessories
the presence of Erato was perhaps inevitable. In any case it was profuse.
Nowhere, at no time, has emotional æstheticism, the love of the lovely,
the fervor of individual utterance, been as general and spontaneous as it
was in this early Academe.

In the later Academe at Athens laughter was prohibited. That of Mitylene
was less severe. To loiter there some familiarity with the magnificence of
Homer may have been exacted, but otherwise a receptive mind, appreciative
eyes, and kissable lips were the best passports to Sappho, the girl Plato
of its groves, who, like Plato, taught beauty, sang it as well and with it
the glukupikros--the bitterness of things too sweet.

Others sang with her. Among those, whose names at least, the fates and the
Fathers have spared us, were Erinna and Andromeda. Sappho cited them as
her rivals. One may wonder could they have been really that. Plato called
Sappho the tenth muse. Solon, after hearing one of her poems, prayed that
he might not die until he had learned it. Longinus spoke of her with awe.
Strabo said that at no period had any one been known who in any way,
however slight, could be compared to her.

Though twenty-five centuries have gone since then, Sappho is still
unexceeded. Twice only has she been approached; in the first instance by
Horace, in the second by Swinburne, and though it be admitted, as is
customary among scholars, that Horace is the most correct of the Latin
poets, as Swinburne is the most faultless of our day, Sappho sits and
sings above them atop, like her own perfect simile of a bride:

   Like the sweet apple which reddens atop on the topmost bough,
   Atop on the topmost twig which the pluckers forgot somehow.
   Forget it not, nay, but got it not, for none could get it till now.[10]

It is regrettable that one cannot now get Sappho. But of at least nine
books there remain but two odes and a handful of fragments. The rest has
been lost on the way, turned into palimpsests, or burned in Byzance. The
surviving fragments are limited some to a line, some to a measure, some to
a single word. They are the citations of lexicographers and grammarians,
made either as illustrations of the Æolic tongue or as examples of metre.

The odes are addressed, the one to Aphrodite, the other to Anactoria. The
first is derived from Dionysius of Halicarnassus, who quoted it as a
perfect illustration of perfect verse. The second was given by Longinus as
an example of the sublime in poetry--of the display, as he put it, not of
one emotion, but of a congress of them. Under the collective title of
Anactoria, these odes together with many of the fragments, Swinburne has
interwoven into an exquisite whole.

To appreciate it, Sappho herself should be understood. Her features, which
the Lesbians put on their coins, are those of a handsome boy. On seeing
them one does not say, Can this be Sappho? But rather, This is Sappho
herself. They fit her, fit her verse, fit her fame. That fame, prodigious
in her own day, is serviceable in ours. It has retained the name of
Phaon, her lover; the names of girls for whom she also cared. Of these,
Suidas particularly mentioned Atthis and Gorgo. Regarding Anactoria there
is the testimony of the ode. There is more. "I loved thee once, Atthis,
long ago," she exclaimed in one fragment. In another she declared herself
"Of Gorgo full weary." But the extreme poles of her affection are
supposably represented by Phaon and Anactoria. The ode to the latter is,
apart from its perfection, merely a jealous plaint, yet otherwise useful
in showing the trend of her fancy, in addition to the fact that her love
was not always returned. Of that, though, there is further evidence in the
fragments. Some one she reproached with being "Fonder of girls than
Gello." Elsewhere she said "Scornfuller than thou have I nowhere found."
But even in the absence of such evidence, the episode connected with
Phaon, although of a different order, would suffice.

Contemporaneous knowledge of it is derived from Strabo, Servius,
Palæphatus, and from an alleged letter in one of Ovid's literary
forgeries. According to these writers, Phaon was a good-looking young
brute engaged in the not inelegant occupation of ferryman. In what manner
he first approached Sappho, whether indeed Sappho did not first approach
him, is uncertain. Pliny, who perhaps was credulous, believed that Phaon
had happened on the male root of a seaweed which was supposed to act as a
love charm and that by means of it he succeeded in winning Sappho's rather
volatile heart. However that may be, presently Phaon wearied. It was
probably in these circumstances that the Ode to Aphrodite was written,
which, in Swinburne's paraphrase--slightly paraphrased anew--is as
follows:

     I beheld in sleep the light that is
     In her high place in Paphos, heard the kiss
     Of body and soul that mix with eager tears
     And laughter stinging through the eyes and ears;
     Saw Love, as burning flame from crown to feet,
     Imperishable upon her storied seat;
     Clear eyelids lifted toward the north and south,
     A mind of many colors and a mouth
     Of many tunes and kisses; and she bowed
     With all her subtle face laughing aloud,
     Bowed down upon me saying, "Who doth the wrong,
     Sappho?" But thou--thy body is the song,
     Thy mouth the music; thou art more than I,
     Though my voice die not till the whole world die,
     Though men that hear it madden; though love weep,
     Though nature change, though shame be charmed to sleep.
     Ah, wilt thou slay me lest I kiss thee dead?
     Yet the queen laughed and from her sweet heart said:
     "Even he that flees shall follow for thy sake,
     And he shall give thee gifts that would not take,
     Shall kiss that would not kiss thee" (Yea, kiss me)
     "When thou wouldst not"--When I would not kiss thee!

If Phaon heard he did not heed. He took ship and sailed away, to Sicily it
is said, where, it is also said, Sappho followed, desisting only when he
flung at her some gibe about Anactoria and Atthis. In a letter which Ovid
pretended she then addressed to him, she referred to the gibe, but whether
by way of denial or admission, is now, owing to different readings of the
text, uncertain. In some copies she said, quas (the Lesbian girls) non
sine crimine (reproach) amavi. In others, quas hic (in Lesbos) sine
crimine amavi. Disregarding the fact that the letter itself is imaginary,
the second reading is to be preferred, not because it is true, but
precisely because it is not. Sappho, though a woman, was a poet. Several
of her verses contain allusions to attributes poetically praised by poets
who never possessed them, and Ovid who had not written a treatise on the
Art of Love for the purpose of displaying his ignorance, was too adroit to
let his imaginary Sappho admit what the real Sappho would have denied.[11]

Meanwhile Phaon refused to return. At Lesbos there was a white rock that
stretched out to the sea. On it was a temple to Apollo. A fall from the
rock was, at the time, locally regarded as a cure for love. Arthemesia,
queen of Caria, whom another Phaon had rebuffed and who, to teach him
better manners, put his eyes out, threw herself from it. Sappho did also.
It cured her of the malady, of all others as well.

Such is the story, such, rather, is its outline, one interesting from the
fact that it constitutes the initial love-tragedy of the Occident, as,
also, because of a climax befitting the singer of the bitterness of things
too sweet.




V

THE AGE OF ASPASIA


"Eros is son of earth and heaven, but persuasion is Aphrodite's daughter."
So Sappho sang. The note, new and true as well, became, as fresh truth
ever does become, revolutionary. Athens heard it. Even Sparta listened.
Corinth and Miletus repeated it in clinging keys.

With the new truth came a new era. Through meditations patient and
prolonged Calypso had succeeded in adding coquetry to love. With a distich
Sappho emancipated it. To the despotism that insisted she suggested the
duty of asking; to the submission that had obeyed she indicated the grace
that grants; yet, posing as barrier between each, the right and liberty of
choice, which already Rhodopis had exacted.

Then the new era came. The gynæceum was not emptied. Wives were still shut
apart. But elsewhere, with that marvel which Atticism was, came the sense
of personal dignity, the conception of individuality, the theory of
freedom, and, ultimately, in streets where women of position could not
venture unaccompanied and unveiled, they were free to come and go at
will, to mingle with men, to assist at comedies and games, to become what
women are to-day, with this difference, they were more handsome and less
pretty. To a people naturally æsthetic the revolution naturally appealed.
Led by the irresistible authority of beauty, for support it had the
sovereign prestige of the muse.

In stooping to conquer, Erato smiled, supplying, as she did so, another
conception, one as novel as the first, the idea that, after all, though
love is a serious thing, the mingling of a little gayety in it is not
forbidden. It was to Anacreon that Erato offered that chord, threw it
rather, laughing, in his face. The poet, laughing too, took and plucked it
lightly, producing quick airs, conceits of pleasure and of wine. When
Sappho sang, it was with all her fervent soul. When she loved it was with
all her fervid heart. She sang as the nightingales of Lesbos sang, because
singing was her life, and she sang of love because she could sing of
nothing else. Anacreon did not pretend to sing. He hummed as the bees of
Hymettus hummed, over this flower and over that, indifferent to each,
caring not for them, for their sweets merely, eager to get all he could as
quickly as he might, smacking his faunesque lips over the grape,
staggering with a hiccough along the lanes of love, trailing among them
strophes to Bacchus rather than to Eros, yet managing to combine the two
and leaving finally to the world that chord with its notes of pleasure.

These, mounting behind Sappho's songs, spread through Hellas, creating as
they spread a caste that borrowed from the girl her freedom, from the bard
his wit, and, from the fusion, produced the hetaira.

Hetaira is a term which Sappho applied to her pupils. It means comrade.
But either because it was too elusive for history's detention or too
fragile for its care, it became corrupted, shoved roughly by stupid hands
among the pornai. The latter were the hierodules of Aphrodite Pandemos.
The hetairæ were objects of art, patiently fashioned in fastidious
convents, a class of highly educated young women to whom marriage did not
necessarily appeal but to whom liberty was essential, girls "pleasanter,"
Amphis said, "than the wife, for she with the law on her side, can sit in
your house and despise you."

Such an attitude is not enticing. The hetairæ were an alterative from it,
and, at the same time, a protest against existing feminine conditions.
These conditions the legislature could not change but the protest the
legislature could and did encourage. While the wife sat contemptuous in
the severe gynæceum, the hetairæ mingled with men, charming them always,
marrying them occasionally, yet only when their own equality and
independence was recognized and conserved.

It was into a union of this kind that Pericles entered with Aspasia. He
never regretted it, though history has affected to regard it as illicit,
and Aspasia as Omphale. The affectation is an injustice. "In all things,"
Pericles said, "a man's life should be as clean as his hands." What
Aspasia said is not recorded. But it is not improbable that she inspired
the remark.

Aspasia was born and educated at Miletus. It was chiefly there and at
Corinth that the hetairæ were trained. In these cities, seminaries had
been established where girls rose from studies as serious as those which
the practice of other liberal professions comport. Their instruction
comprised everything that concerned the perfectioning of the body and
everything that related to the embellishment of the mind. In addition to
calisthenics, there were courses in music, poetry, diction, philosophy,
politics, and art. The graduates were admirable. Their beauty was
admirable also. But they were admired less for that than because the study
of every grace had contributed to their understanding of the unique art,
which is that of charming. Charm they exhaled. Gifted and accomplished,
they were the only women with whom an enlightened Greek could converse.
Their attitude was irreproachable, their distinction extreme, and they
differed from other women only in that their manners were more correct.
Plato had one of them for muse. Sophocles another. To Glycera, of whom
Menander wrote, poetry was an insufficient homage, a statue was erected to
her.[12]

These instances, anomalous now, were logical then. To the Greek the gifts
of the gods were more beneficent here than hereafter. Of divine gifts none
was more appreciated and none more allied to the givers than beauty. The
value attached to it, prodigious in peace, was potent in war, potent in
law. At Platæa, Callicrates was numbered among the heroes because of his
looks. For the same reason Philippus, killed in battle, was nobly buried
and worshipped by those who had been his foes. For the same reason Phryne,
charged with high crimes, was acquitted.

At the Eleusinian mysteries, beneath the portico of the temple, before
assembled Athens, Phryne appeared in the guise of Aphrodite rising from
the sea. Charged with parodying the rites, she was summoned before the
Areiopagus. Conviction meant death. But her beauty, which her advocate
suddenly and cleverly disclosed, was her sole defence. It sufficed for
the acquittal of this woman whose statue, the work of Praxiteles, was
placed in the temple at Delphi.

The tomb of a sister had for epitaph: "Greece, formerly invincible, was
conquered and enslaved by the beauty of Lais, daughter of Love, graduate
of Corinth, who here rests in the noble fields of Thessaly." For Thais a
monument was erected. At Tarsus Glycera had honors semi-divine. In Greece,
let a woman be what she might, if beautiful she was deified, if charming
she was adored. In either case she represented vivified æstheticism to a
people at once intellectual and athletic, temperate and rich, a people
who, contemptous of any time-consuming business, supported by a nation of
slaves, possessing in consequence that wide leisure without which the
