which she had never counted helped her a little. If Castiglione
came suddenly to Rome, it would be known, and it would surely be
said that he had come to see her; if no one else knew it, Teresa
Crescenzi surely would, and would tell every one. She thought of
Montalto’s letter, telling her that he had known of her quiet life,
and that the dignity she had shown had appealed to him. He should
not come back now to be told that he had been deceived, and that
Castiglione made long journeys expressly to see her. Her pride
would not suffer that.
She went out on foot and entered the small telegraph office outside
the railway station, for she could not have sent her message by a
servant’s hand. She took the ink-crusted pen and a flimsy blank
form, and thought of what she should say. The shabby young clerk
at the little sliding window would have to read the telegram, and
perhaps he knew her by sight. She thought a moment longer, and then
wrote a few words:--
‘Impossible. If you really wish to help a person in great distress,
be patient. Await letter.’
This looked very cold when it was written, but she thought it would
do, and she felt sure that Castiglione would obey her request. At
least, he could not leave Milan until he received the letter she
was about to write to him.
It reached him on the following evening, and in the tender,
beseeching words he read what was worse than a sentence of exile.
But he submitted then, for it was as if she spoke to him, and he
could hear every tone of her voice in the silence of his room.
Since she had taken him back to her heart she dominated him by the
nobility of her love, and by her touching trust in his. He read her
letter twice, and then burnt it in the empty fireplace, carefully
setting a second match to the last white shreds that showed at the
edges of the thin black ashes.
‘You are a saint on earth,’ he said to her in his thoughts. ‘You
are good enough to make a man believe in God.’
Perhaps he rose one step higher in that moment, for he was in
earnest. But it had cost him much. For three days he had kept his
valise packed and ready to start at any moment, and he saw it lying
in a corner as he turned from the fireplace. Once again the strong
temptation came upon him to take it and go downstairs. That would
be the irrevocable step, for he knew well enough that if he went so
far as that he would not turn back.
His big jaw thrust itself forward rather savagely as he crossed the
room, picked up the valise, and set it on a chair to unpack it.
When he had put his things away he threw it into a corner, lit a
cigar, and sat down by the open window to watch the people in the
broad street. He hoped that he might not think for a little while.
There was a knock at the door and his orderly came in with a
telegram. He almost started at the sight of the brownish yellowish
little square of folded paper in the man’s hand.
‘Join us at once to ride in military races on Thursday. War
Office telegraphs order exchange to your colonel to-night.
Make haste, in order to rest your horses. Welcome back to the
regiment.--CASALMAGGIORE, Colonel.’
Castiglione’s hand dropped upon his knee, holding the open
telegram. The orderly stood motionless, stolidly waiting to be sent
away. He would have waited in the same position till he dropped,
but it seemed a long time before the officer turned his head.
‘Pack everything to-night,’ he said. ‘Telephone in my name to the
station and order a box for the horses as far as Pisa, and be ready
to start with them by the first train to-morrow. I am to join the
Piedmont Lancers in Rome at once. You will spend the night in Pisa
to rest the horses, and come on with them the next day. I will
attend to your leave and pass. Take what you need for yourself for
four days. You will have a day and a night in Rome.’
The orderly was a good man and could be trusted. Castiglione got
into his best tunic, buckled on his sabre, took his cap and gloves,
thrust the telegram into his breast pocket, and went to take leave
of his colonel and his brother officers, wherever he might find
them. He was in no hurry, but it was a relief to get out of doors,
and he walked slowly along the broad pavement, returning the
salutes of the many soldiers who passed him.
It would be quite out of the question to disobey such a summons
as he had just received. Nothing short of a feigned illness
could have excused a short delay, and besides, the wording of
the telegram showed that he was wanted for the honour of his old
regiment in the coming races. He had always been the best rider
of them all, and if the Piedmont Lancers did not make a good
appearance, owing to his voluntary absence, he would not be easily
forgiven; indeed, he would hardly have forgiven himself.
But he would not write or telegraph to Maria that he was coming,
and he was sure that she would not write to him again unless
he answered her letter. Once in Rome, he meant to send her the
telegram he had in his pocket, to prove that he had been ordered
back, and that his coming had not been voluntary. She would see him
then, for it would be different; she could not refuse, as she might
if she thought he had come in spite of her letter. His exchange had
been at most but a matter of days; it had become a matter of hours.
So much the better, since fate condescended to help him a little.
The vision of hope he had enjoyed so short a time rose before him
again. Montalto might not return after all, or he might break his
neck on the way, but Castiglione doubted the probability of such a
termination to his own troubles.
CHAPTER X
The workmen were very busy at the Palazzo Montalto, and the rich
widow from Chicago who occupied one of the large apartments was a
little nervous, for there is a clause in all leases of portions of
Roman palaces to the effect that the owner may turn any tenant out
at short notice if he needs the rooms for his own use; and as the
good lady had not the slightest idea of the real size of the place,
she had long supposed that she was living in the state apartment.
But she need not have disturbed herself and her friends about
that. Montalto would as soon have let the place where his mother
and his wife had lived with him as he would have put up his titles
at auction. He had sent orders that the vast suite was to be got
ready in a month’s time, and as no one had expected that he would
ever come back to live there, the accumulation of dust was found to
be portentous. Moreover, all the carpets had disappeared, no one
knew how, the upholstered furniture was all moth-eaten, the window
fastenings would not work, the mirrors were hopelessly tarnished,
and the ceiling of the ballroom had been badly damaged by the
bursting of a water-pipe in the apartment over it.
To make matters worse, the old steward of the Roman estates, whose
business it was to keep the palace in order, was in his dotage, and
was expected to have a stroke of apoplexy at any moment.
Then one morning a business-like young man arrived from Montalto,
the great family seat on the Austrian frontier, with instructions
to put matters right, and to lose no time about it. The old Roman
steward flew into a frightful rage because the Montalto steward was
his superior, and promptly had his stroke of apoplexy, which helped
things a little without killing him. The business-like young man
spent one whole day in watching the people at work and never said a
word, but when the evening came, he had them all paid and he turned
them out, to their amazement and mortification. Then he took a cab
and drove to the Via San Martino and asked to see the Countess,
just before she dressed for dinner. He was a very modest young man,
and he waited in the hall for her answer; and when Agostino came
back to inquire more particularly who he was and what he wanted, he
said that he was the chief steward of Montalto and had a message
from His Excellency the Count to Her Excellency the Countess, if
she would be so kind as to receive him. In the eyes of the butler
he at once became an important personage, and many apologies were
offered for having let him wait in the outer hall.
Maria received him in her sitting-room. In her deep mourning she
looked unnaturally pale, and her dark eyes seemed very big. She
pointed to a chair and sat down herself.
The young man lost no time and told her at once that the Count had
sent him to see that the palace was made habitable at once, and
desired that the Countess should be consulted on every point about
which she was willing to give her opinion. She was to select her
own rooms and direct that they should be hung and furnished to her
taste, and the Count would esteem it a great favour if she would
take the trouble to order everything else to be changed as she
thought best, excepting only the late Dowager Countess’s rooms,
which he desired should not be touched. Her Excellency doubtless
knew which those rooms were, and would she be so very kind as
to say when it would be convenient for her to meet her obedient
servant at the palace and to give him her orders. He was instructed
to spare no trouble or expense in order to please her if possible.
Maria recognised her husband’s formal expressions in what the quiet
young man said so fluently. Doubtless Montalto had written every
word of his orders with his own hand, and the steward had read them
over till he knew them by heart. She thanked him and said she would
meet him at the palace the next morning at ten o’clock.
She did not take Leone with her, for she was sure that the great
neglected house would be gloomy beyond description, and she did not
wish him to have a sad impression of the house in which he had been
born, and in which he was now to live. Besides, she could not quite
trust herself, and the small boy’s eyes were marvellously quick to
detect any change in her face.
The places where things very good or very bad to remember have
happened to us are ever afterwards inhabited by invisible ghosts,
kind or malignant, who show themselves to us when we revisit the
spots they haunt, though they never disturb any one else. Maria
knew that; an evil genius had long dwelt under those ilex-trees
in the Villa Borghese, and she had exorcised it, but there were
spectres in her former home that would not be laid. She bit her
lip as she entered the once familiar hall, and saw room after room
opening out beyond it in a long perspective that ended in a closed
door adorned with mirrors in its panels. That door had always been
kept shut when all the others were open; it led into the room that
had been her boudoir. Even at that great distance Maria could see
how dim the old glasses in the panels had become.
She walked slowly through the apartment, looking to the right and
left. Something had been done, but not much. There was a ladder
against a wall in one room and the hangings were half torn down;
a dozen rolls of new carpet lay in confusion in another, redolent
of that extraordinary odour which only perfectly new carpets have;
in one of the halls beyond, a quantity of more or less decrepit
sofas and chairs had been collected and disembowelled, and the
moth-eaten wool and musty horse-hair lay about them in mouldering
heaps; the portraits were still in their places on the walls, and
Montalto seemed to look sadly down from half a dozen frames at his
young wife as she went by in black; there was Montalto in armour
and Montalto in black velvet and ruffles, Montalto in a Spanish
cloak and Montalto in a flowered silk French coat, with a powdered
wig; but it was always Montalto; the likeness between them all from
generation to generation had been amazing, and the old pictures
made Maria nervous.
The young steward, whose name was Orlando Schmidt, walked by her
left, hat in hand, glancing respectfully at her now and then to see
whether she was going to say anything. But her lips were pressed
together, and he fancied that the rings round her eyes grew darker
as she neared the end of the long suite, and still went on towards
the closed door with its tarnished mirrors. She looked very pale
and tired.
‘Will your Excellency sit down and rest a while?’ he asked.
‘Not yet, thank you. Presently.’
And she went slowly on, slowly and steadily, towards the closed
door, till she laid her hand on the chiselled handle and turned it
and pushed against the panel. But it would not move.
‘Perhaps it is locked,’ suggested Schmidt. ‘I had not taken it for
a real door. I thought the apartment ended here.’
‘No,’ Maria answered in a low tone. ‘This used to be my boudoir.
Try and open it. I want to go in.’
The young man tried the handle, put his eye to the keyhole, and
tried again. Then he shook his head.
‘It is not a very strong door,’ said Maria. ‘I think we could break
it open. I want to go in.’
‘I can certainly break it,’ answered Schmidt.
He threw his shoulder against the crack and pushed with all his
might, but though the door creaked a little it would not move.
‘Is there no other way?’ asked Maria impatiently. ‘I must get in!’
‘Oh, yes,’ Schmidt answered, ‘there is another way. I can smash the
lock.’
‘I wish you would!’
He stood back and made a little gesture with his hand for her to
move aside, and before she knew what he was going to do, the heel
of his heavy walking boot struck the lock with the force of a
small battering-ram. The door flew back on its hinges into total
darkness, and there was a crash of broken glass as one of the
mirrors fell from its panel to the marble Venetian pavement.
Maria uttered a little cry of hurt surprise, for what Schmidt had
done seemed brutal to her; but she passed him quickly and went on
into the dark, and the bits of broken mirror cracked under her
tread. She was sure that the room had never been opened since she
had left it, and she went straight to one of the windows without
running against the furniture; the familiar fastenings had rusted
and she could not move them quickly. Schmidt lit a wax-light and
followed, but before he reached her side she had succeeded in
opening the inner shutters, and the bright light from the slits in
the blinds shone into the room through the dim panes.
Maria turned from the window and looked about her. The furniture
stood as she had last seen it. A moment later Schmidt threw open
the glass and the blinds and the violent sunshine flooded the dusty
marble floor, the faded pink silk on the walls, the tarnished
inlaid tables, the chairs, and a little sofa near the fireplace.
‘It is too much!’ cried Maria nervously. ‘There is too much light!’
Schmidt drew the blinds near together without quite shutting them.
When he looked behind him again Maria was sitting on the little
sofa near the fireplace, her face turned from him, and her fingers
were nervously pulling at a rent in the pink silk which tore under
her touch. But the young steward did not notice the action, and was
already making a mental list of the repairs that would be necessary
to make the boudoir habitable again. Maria looked ill, and he
thought she was tired.
But the evil spirit that haunted the place was there, beside her on
the little sofa, and she could hear its demon whisper in her ear.
That was a part of her expiation, and she knew it. Then she spoke
to Schmidt steadily, but without turning her head.
‘I wish everything taken out of this room,’ she said, and she
listened to her own voice to be sure that it did not shake.
‘Everything must be new, the hangings, the ceiling, the furniture,
the fireplace. You see how dilapidated it all is, don’t you?’
She asked the question as if to justify her orders.
‘There is nothing fit to keep,’ answered the steward, ‘except that
inlaid writing-table and the bookcase.’
‘I prefer to have them changed, too,’ said Maria quickly.
‘Everything! Let the new things be dark. There is too much light
here. Not red, either. I hate red. Let everything be dark grey.’
‘A greenish grey, perhaps?’ suggested Schmidt diffidently.
‘Yes, yes! But dark, very dark, with black furniture. Paint this
marble fireplace black----’
‘Black?’ exclaimed the young man, with a polite interrogation.
‘Perhaps it would be better to have a new one of black marble then?’
‘Yes--anything, provided it is changed, and everything is new and
quite different! That is all I want. And my dressing-room was
there.’ She pointed to a second door. ‘My bedroom was beyond it.
I’m sure that door is locked, too. Could you go round by the other
way and see if the key is on that side?’
She turned her white face to Schmidt. He guessed that she had been
moved by some strong association and wished to be alone to recover
herself, and in a moment he was gone; for he was a tactful person.
When she was alone she did not bury her face in the corner of the
tattered little sofa, nor did any tears rise in her tired eyes; she
only sat there quite still, and her head fell forward as if she had
fainted; but her fingers slowly tore little shreds from the faded
pink silk of the sofa.
Schmidt stayed away a long time. She heard his footsteps at last on
a tiled floor in the distance, and raised her hand quickly to cover
her eyes, while her lips moved for a moment. When the steward
unlocked the second door and came in, she was standing quietly by
the window waiting for him.
The worst was over for that day, and though she was still very
pale, she was no longer deadly white, and the haunted look that had
come back suddenly to her eyes was gone. She went through the house
systematically after that, conscientiously fulfilling her husband’s
requests; she gave clear directions about her own rooms and the
one she meant to give Leone, and made many suggestions about the
rest. She showed Schmidt the little apartment once occupied by
her mother-in-law, and advised the steward to have it carefully
cleaned and set in order, since nothing was to be changed in it.
At present, she said, it looked neglected, and the Count would
certainly not like to find it so. Schmidt nodded gravely, as if he
quite understood. She was so quiet and calm now, that he thought
he had been mistaken in thinking her disturbed by some poignant
memory. She had probably felt ill.
When she left the palace at last, she told him to let her know when
the refurnishing was so far advanced as to make a visit from her
necessary, and she thanked him so kindly for his attention that he
blushed a little.
For Orlando Schmidt was a modest and well-educated young man, of a
respectable Austrian family by his father’s side, but an Italian
as to his nationality. He had been to good schools, he had studied
scientific farming at an agricultural institute in Upper Austria,
and he had followed a commercial course in Milan; he had also
learned something about practical building, and was naturally
possessed of tolerably good taste.
‘I hope you will stay here and take charge of the Roman estate,’
said the Countess. ‘I fancy the lands are in as bad a condition as
the apartment upstairs.’
She smiled graciously, and Schmidt blushed again.
‘Your Excellency is very kind,’ he said modestly, as he stood
beside her low phaeton with his hat in his hand. ‘I am lodged here
in the palace, if you need me.’
She drove away, and before the carriage turned the corner of
the palace on the way to the more central part of the city, she
had quite forgotten Orlando Schmidt, though he had made such a
favourable impression upon her.
But the young man stood before the great arched entrance and
watched her till she was out of sight, with an expression she could
not have understood; and afterwards he whistled softly as he turned
back to ascend the stairs again in order to make careful notes of
all she had said about each room. He began in the boudoir, and he
sat down on the little sofa near the fireplace, with his large
note-book on his knee, and wrote busily while her words were still
fresh in his memory. Once or twice he looked towards the door,
which he could see as he sat, and the broken pieces of mirror
caught his eye. He remembered that his Italian mother had once told
him when he was a boy that it was very unlucky to break a mirror.
But he smiled at the recollection, for he was not a superstitious
young man, and had received a half-scientific education.
It was nearly twelve o’clock when Maria left the palace. She had
not realised that it was so late, and she had told the coachman
to take her to a dressmaker’s far down the Corso, near the Piazza
del Popolo. She was to have tried on a couple of frocks which were
necessary to complete her mourning; but the gun-fire from the
Janiculus and the clashing of all the church bells told her that
it was noon already, and too late, for Leone always had his dinner
with her at half-past twelve. She touched Telemaco’s broad black
back with the edge of her parasol to call his attention, and she
told him to go home instead of stopping at the dressmaker’s.
He asked whether he should pass through the Villa by Porta
Pinciana, that being as near a way as any other, and easy for the
horses, and she nodded her assent. She had not been in the Villa
since the day when she had walked there alone, and had gone home
and found Montalto’s letter.
It was a warm spring morning, but the horses trotted briskly up
the main avenue that leads in from the gate, glad to be in the
pleasant shade. Maria lowered her parasol to the bottom of the
phaeton without shutting it, for she knew she should need it again
in a few minutes. There was no other carriage in the avenue just
then, but several riders were walking their horses slowly towards
the gate after exercising them on the course. The first she met
were two civilians, and one of them was Oderisio Boccapaduli. He
recognised her from a distance, and before he was near enough to
bow he glanced quickly behind him, as if he expected to see some
one. She did not know the other man. Oderisio took off his hat, and
she smiled and nodded. Then came a captain of artillery on a strong
Hungarian horse that was evidently in a bad temper and hard to
manage. Maria turned her head to watch them after she had passed,
but her carriage was going at a smart pace and she soon looked
before her again. Not far ahead were two officers of the Piedmont
Lancers, walking their horses and talking together.
One was the same young lieutenant who had jumped his English mare
in and out of the ring for her benefit on that morning when she had
been on foot. She might have met him there any day. The other was
Baldassare del Castiglione, and she had not known that he was in
Rome.
She was so startled that she made a movement to raise her open
parasol and hide her face; but she instantly understood the
absurdity of doing such a thing and dropped it again, and looked
steadily towards the advancing horsemen, though for a few seconds
she could not see them. They were hidden in a fiery mist that rose
between her and them. It dissolved suddenly, and Castiglione was
gravely saluting her; his face was calm, but his eyes were blazing
blue. The young lieutenant raised his hand to his cap almost at the
same instant. With infinite difficulty Maria slowly bent her head
in answer, but she did not turn her eyes as the two men passed her,
and in another moment she had left them behind.
Then she felt that her heart was beating again, for she was sure
that it had quite stopped. But at the same instant her hand
unconsciously relaxed, and her open parasol, which was already half
over the step of the phaeton, flew out, rolled a little way, and
lay in the middle of the road, with the handle upwards.
She sat up quickly and called to Telemaco to stop. But the old man
was a little deaf, and she had to call twice before he checked the
quickly-trotting pair and brought them to a stand.
‘My parasol!’ she cried, as the coachman looked over his shoulder.
‘Give me the reins and get it,’ she added.
She heard the hoofs of a horse cantering up behind her, and she
looked round. Castiglione must have turned in the saddle to look
after her, and must have seen the parasol fall. It lay with the
handle upward, and parasol handles chanced to be long that year. It
was easy for a good rider to bend low and pick the thing up almost
without slackening his pace, and in another moment he was beside
the carriage giving it back to Maria.
‘Thank you,’ she said faintly. ‘I did not know you were in Rome.’
A quick word rose to his lips, but he checked it. Then he bent down
to her from the saddle, on pretence of brushing an imaginary fly
from his horse’s shoulder.
‘I thought you would rather not know it from me,’ he said quietly,
but so low that the deaf coachman could not hear. ‘Good morning,
Contessa,’ he added more loudly, as he straightened himself in the
saddle and saluted again.
He was gone, trotting back to join his companion; but she would not
look after him when she had told Telemaco to drive on. And all the
way home a great wave of joy was surging up round her, to her very
feet, and she was trying to climb higher lest it should rise and
overwhelm her; and she was clinging to something dark, and cold,
and hard as a black marble pillar, that was Montalto, and duty, and
death, all in one.
That afternoon a note came for her, brought to the door by a
trooper and left with the remark that there was no answer.
It contained the telegram Castiglione had received in Milan, and a
sheet of note-paper on which a few words were written in pencil.
‘This explains itself,’ he wrote. ‘It is the inevitable. I shall
not try to see you.’ She knew that she ought to be proud of his
good faith, but it was not easy.
CHAPTER XI
More than a month had passed and it was near the end of May; yet
Maria had not again exchanged a word with Castiglione. She had seen
him twice in the street, from a distance, but she was not sure
that he had seen her the second time. If he saw her, he certainly
wished her to think that he did not. She never went to the Villa
Borghese, nor drove towards Tor di Quinto nor along the beautiful
Monte Parioli avenue, lest she should meet him in one of those
places where officers ride at all hours of the day. On his side, he
avoided the streets through which she was likely to pass. It was
easy enough to do that, and as she was in mourning he was sure not
to find her where people met in the houses of mutual acquaintances.
For he had no intention of shutting himself up, being much too
sensible not to foresee that if he did so people would say he
spent his time with her. He showed himself in many places, on
the contrary, frequented Teresa Crescenzi’s drawing-room at
tea-time, dined assiduously with his cousins the Boccapaduli, at
whose house the old-fashioned Romans congregated, and also with
the Campodonico, and he was often at the Parenzos’ pretty house
in the Via Ludovisi, which was a favourite gathering-place of
the political party then in power, and of that portion of the
diplomatic corps which was accredited to the Quirinal and not to
the Vatican. The Duca di Casalmaggiore had become a friend of
Parenzo’s, and Castiglione took a good deal of pains to be seen
as often as possible in society by his colonel, who was of an
inquisitive turn of mind. In order to make his existence still more
patent in the eyes of his comrades, he lodged with one of them, a
man of his own age who was also not very well off, and who could
hardly help knowing where Baldassare went, what he did, and whether
he received many notes addressed in feminine handwriting or not.
The consequence of all this, and of his assiduity in matters of
duty, was that Teresa Crescenzi’s latest story got little credit,
and his brother officers said that he was ambitious and was going
in for the career in earnest. The colonel, who was a widower with a
son in the navy and a daughter married in Naples, and whom Teresa
had once vainly tried to capture for herself, disliked her and so
effectually ridiculed her invention that the rest of Castiglione’s
comrades fell into the way of laughing at her, too; and they said
that after having failed to marry the colonel she had tried to
catch Baldassare, and now meant to revenge herself because he would
not have her. His chum, too, told them that he certainly had no
secret love affair, and that when he was not on duty or at the
officers’ club, or where every one could see him, he was in his
lodgings reading German books on military tactics. Clearly he was
going in for the career.
He did not act or look like a man in love either; not in the
least. He had not been talkative before he left the regiment, but
since he had returned he took more pains than formerly to join in
the conversation. Another point in his favour was that he never had
any vague engagement which hindered him from joining in anything
that was unexpectedly proposed. Whatever he had to do was open and
definite; when it was not duty, it was a real promise to dine with
some one whom he named, and he took care to have it known that he
went; or else he had agreed to ride somewhere with an acquaintance,
and if any one took the trouble to go to that place, there he was,
sure enough, with the man he had named. In what was left of society
so late in the season, if he once talked especially to any one
woman he gave himself as much pains to amuse and interest another
on the morrow. He was such a model of a sensible man and such a
good officer that the colonel, who was rich enough to have afforded
the luxury of a poor son-in-law, wished he had another daughter
that he might marry her to Castiglione; and he said so openly, to
the great edification of Roman society.
As for Maria Montalto she did not speak of him again to Giuliana,
but the latter knew she never let him come to the house and that
she had made up her mind to see him as rarely as possible. Giuliana
was too simple and natural to care whether this excellent state
of things was due to her own advice or to Montalto’s approaching
return. It was enough that Maria was doing right and giving the
gossips nothing to talk about.
Parenzo and his wife went to England at this time, with the
intention of spending three weeks there. The Marchese, it was
understood, was entrusted with some special political business, and
as a matter of course he took his wife with him; for the first time
in her life Maria was glad to part from her old friend.
There are ordeals which it is easier to face alone than under the
eyes of others, even of those we love best; there are tortures
which are a little easier to bear when our dearest friends are not
watching our faces to see if we shall wince.
The date of Montalto’s return was approaching, and the state
apartment in the palace was almost ready, thanks to Orlando
Schmidt’s quiet energy and to a rather lavish expenditure of money.
He was a truly wonderful young man, Maria thought, for he seemed to
know everything that was useful and possessed the power of making
people work without so much as complaining till they were quite
exhausted. He never raised his voice, he never spoke roughly to a
workman; but he seemed to inspire something like terror and abject
submission in all whom he employed, and they spoke in whispers when
he was near and worked till they could work no longer.
Maria went to the apartment twice again, once to select the
hangings and stuffs for her own rooms out of a quantity that had
been sent for her approval, and once again when the furnishing was
almost finished. She was quiet and collected, for nothing was left
to remind her of the old boudoir and the rest. At her second visit
she was surprised to find that the small room had three doors
instead of two as formerly, and she asked the steward if the third
one was real, or an imitation fastened against the solid wall for
the sake of symmetry.
‘It is a real door,’ answered Schmidt. ‘It had been thinly walled
up and plastered over long ago, and I found it accidentally, and
took the liberty of opening it again. I hope your Excellency will
approve.’
‘It looks well,’ Maria said, for it helped to change the aspect of
the room; ‘but where does it take one?’
‘To the chapel,’ replied the steward. ‘I found a narrow passage
leading directly to a small door on the left side of the altar. You
can thus reach the chapel by a private way without going through
the apartment. The corridor was quite dark, but I have had electric
light put in. The key is here, you see.’
Schmidt moved it and opened the door at the same time with his
other hand, and Maria saw a narrow passage, brightly lit up. The
walls were white and varnished, and the floor was of plain white
tiles.
‘It must have been made in the beginning of the eighteenth
century,’ Schmidt said. ‘There was a Countess at that time who was
a princess of Saxony and was excessively devout. She died mad.’
‘You know the family history better than I do,’ observed Maria.
‘We have served the Excellent house from father to son more than
two hundred years.’
Schmidt said this as if he were telling her the most ordinary fact
in the world.
‘Will your Excellency please go to the chapel by the private
passage?’ he asked.
Maria let him lead the way and followed him. She was gratified by
the use he had made of his discovery, for she thought that it would
sometimes be a relief to go to the chapel alone and unnoticed. But
she also wished to assure herself that no one else could use the
corridor, and that there was a bolt or a lock on the door at the
other end. It was not that she distrusted Schmidt; on the contrary,
she thought very well of him, and was sure that he had consulted
only her convenience in what he had done. But when she thought of
what was before her, she felt very defenceless in the great old
house, so different from the comfortable little modern apartment
in which she had lived with Leone, where there were no hidden
staircases, nor secret passages, nor legends of mad countesses in
the eighteenth century, nor any ghosts of Maria’s own life.
Apparently Schmidt had told her the exact truth about the passage,
which was much longer than she had expected, and turned to the
right very soon, and was straight beyond that for twenty yards or
more. Maria guessed that it here followed the long wall of the
great ball-room, which had no entrances opposite the windows. She
reached the door of the chapel, and the electric light showed her a
strong new bolt with a brass knob, besides the spring latch.
‘It is quite private, you see,’ said Schmidt. ‘The door can be
fastened from this side.’
‘I see. It is very satisfactory. You have thought of everything.’
He opened the door of the small dim chapel, but she would not go
in. It had memories for her which she was afraid to stir. She
remembered how she had once gone there alone between midnight and
morning with a great horror upon her; and how she had knelt down,
setting her candlestick on the pavement beside her; and the dawn
had found her there still. She knew also that in another week or
ten days she would have to kneel there at mass on a Sunday; and
Montalto would be kneeling on one side of her, and Leone with his
bright blue eyes would be on the other.
‘Thank you,’ she said to the steward. ‘I will not go into the
chapel now.’
‘Nothing has been changed there,’ he answered. ‘It has merely been
thoroughly cleaned.’
Maria remembered the two hideous barocco angels in impossible
gilt draperies that supported a dreadful gilt canopy above the
tabernacle; and the absurd decorations of the miniature dome; and
the detestable assemblage of many-coloured marbles; and all the
details that recalled the atrocious taste introduced under the
Spanish influence in the south of Italy during the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries. She had seen nothing of all that when she had
come there alone, long after midnight, years ago, with only her one
flickering candle to light her through the great dark rooms and to
show her where the altar was.
‘I thought the Count would not like to have electric light in the
chapel,’ said Schmidt, as he fastened the door carefully. ‘The key
for the lights in the passage is here on the wall, your Excellency,
just on a level with the lock as you come in.’
‘It is really very well arranged,’ Maria answered, and as the
passage was not wide enough for two persons to pass conveniently,
she turned and led the way back.
‘I have had the walls varnished, because almost any sort of tinting
might rub off on your Excellency’s dress,’ said Schmidt. ‘The
passage is so extremely narrow, you see.’
‘It is very nice,’ Maria answered. ‘It was most sensible of you.’
Behind her, Orlando Schmidt blushed with pleasure at her praise,
and watched her graceful moving figure, shown off against the
shining white walls by the close-fitting black she wore. They
reached the boudoir, and there also Schmidt closed and locked the
door. But this time he took out the key and handed it to Maria.
‘As the passage is for your Excellency’s private use, you may
prefer to take away the key, since the workmen have nothing more to
do there.’
‘Thank you,’ Maria answered.
‘The servants need not know that the door is a real one,’ observed
Schmidt.
It chanced that Maria did not much like the maid she had at that
time, but as the woman was clever she meant to keep her. It struck
her that there was certainly no reason why she need know that her
mistress could go from her own rooms to the chapel without being
seen, if she wished to say her prayers there in private. As for
the chapel itself, its outer door was formerly kept locked, and
Montalto had given her a key to it when they had been married.
The reason for keeping it shut was that the altar contained a
reliquary in which was preserved a comparatively large relic of
the Cross, already very long an heirloom in the family. No doubt
Schmidt knew this, as he seemed to know everything else about his
hereditary employers--or masters, as he would have called them.
When one family of men has served another faithfully, those who
serve possess a sort of universal knowledge of such details which
no ordinary servant could acquire in half a lifetime.
Maria left the boudoir, after putting the key into the small new
black Morocco bag, which had taken the place of the rather shabby
grey velvet one she had used so long. When she came to live in the
palace she meant to keep the key in her writing-desk.
‘The Count wishes me to be here when he comes,’ she said as they
passed through the great ball-room. ‘He writes that you will
engage servants and see to everything. Our old butler and coachman
have never left me. Do you think I may keep them still? I wish to
do nothing, however, which does not agree with your instructions.’
‘My master’s orders,’ said Schmidt, ‘are to meet your Excellency’s
wishes in every respect. He will not even bring his own man with
him, and I have orders to engage a valet for him. If you will tell
me what day will be convenient for you to move, I will see that
everything is ready.’
‘The Count writes that he will arrive on Sunday afternoon,’ Maria
answered. ‘I had better be here two days before that. I will come
on Friday morning.’
‘On Friday?’ repeated the steward with a little surprise.
‘Yes. Are you superstitious, Signor Orlando?’
She really could not call him ‘Signor Schmidt’; it was too absurd;
yet he was of Italian nationality.
‘No, your Excellency, I am not. But most people are. If the Signora
Contessa would be kind enough to call me simply Schmidt,’ he added
with a little hesitation, ‘it is an easy name to remember, and does
not occur in Ariosto’s poem.’
She looked at him rather curiously, but she smiled at his last
words.
‘Very well,’ she said. ‘As you like.’
‘It was my mother,’ he explained, blushing shyly. ‘She is very fond
of Ariosto, and she insisted on christening me Orlando. On Friday
next everything will be ready to receive your Excellency and the
young gentleman. Shall I provide for moving the Signora Contessa’s
things?’
‘I shall be much obliged,’ said Maria, who was glad that she was to
be spared all trouble.
She went home feeling as if she were in a painful dream, from which
she must awake before long. In the afternoon, when Agostino was
out with Leone and the little house was quiet, she went to the
telephone and asked for the number of the Palazzo Boccapaduli.
She got it, and was answered by a man-servant. She inquired when
Castiglione would be at home, but was told that he was not staying
in the house. It was the only address she knew, so she asked where
he lived. The servant did not know, but would go and find out, if
she would hold the communication.
A few moments later the voice that spoke to her was Oderisio’s,
and he asked with whom he was speaking, and on being told, at
once inquired if it was she who wanted Castiglione’s address.
Yes, it was she; did he know it? Yes, he did; and he gave it. Had
Castiglione a telephone? No, but he might be at the officers’ club;
did she wish the number of that? No, she did not care for it. Thank
you, and good-bye.
At first she was a little annoyed that young Boccapaduli should
know she wanted Castiglione’s address. But presently, as she went
back to the sitting-room, it struck her that it was just as well.
Oderisio would understand that she was not seeing Baldassare often,
since she did not know his address after he had been in Rome nearly
a month.
She wrote him a short note, which anybody might have read, begging
him to come and see her on the following Thursday after half-past
two. She addressed it and stamped it, she put on her hat without
calling her maid, and she went out to post it in the letter-box at
the corner of the railway station.
She was sure of herself, she thought, and she believed she had
earned the right to receive Castiglione once again, because she was
bravely resolved never to see him alone after she returned to her
husband’s house. That resolution had formed itself at the instant
when she had told Leone that Montalto was coming back, and she
had not wavered in it since, in spite of what she had felt when
he had brought her the fallen parasol in the Villa. The greatest
and most enduring resolutions in life are rarely made after mature
consideration, still less at those times of spiritual exaltation
which are too often self-suggested, and sought for the sake of a
half-sensuous, half-mysterious agitation of the nerves that is far
from healthy. People who are not morbid and are in great trouble
generally see the right course rather suddenly and unexpectedly;
if they are good they follow it, if they are bad they do not, but
if they attempt a careful and subtle examination of conscience
they often come to grief. It is hopeless to analyse processes in
which conscience and mind are involved together until we can find
a constant coefficient for humanity’s ever-varying strength and
weakness.
During more than a month Maria had acted and thought under the
domination of one idea; she had need of strength, but she had not
felt the want of advice or help. She knew better than the harsh old
Capuchin, better even than Monsignor Saracinesca, what she must do,
and as for help, no living man or woman could have given her any,
unless it were Castiglione himself. She had accepted what was laid
upon her, and when she went at early morning to kneel at the altar
rail in the small oratory, she prayed for strength and for nothing
else.
So far it had come to her and had borne her through more than
any one who knew her could have guessed; and when she sent for
Castiglione, to see him once more and for the last time, she was
far from thinking that she did so from any weakness. It seemed only
just, for no man could have acted more honourably and courageously
than he, and he had a right to know from her own lips what she
meant to do.
He came, knowing what was before him, and meaning to do what he
could to spare her all pain and useless emotion. More and more
often now he called her a saint in his thoughts, and his love for
her was sometimes very like veneration.
She had taken care that Leone should not be in the house that
afternoon, not because she had any thought of concealing
Castiglione’s visit from the child, but out of consideration for
the man himself. She knew only too well what he felt when he saw
the boy’s blue eyes and his short and thick brown hair.
He came in civilian’s dress, lest his brilliant uniform should
attract attention from a distance as he entered the house where she
lived. His hand met hers quietly and the two lovers looked into
each other’s earnest eyes. By a common impulse they sat down in the
places they had generally taken when they had met in the same room
before, on opposite sides of the empty fireplace.
‘I know why you have sent for me,’ began Baldassare, very gently.
‘May I try to tell you? It may be a little easier.’
Maria did not attempt to speak for a few moments, and he waited.
‘No,’ she said at last, quite steadily. ‘You could not tell me just
what I have to say to you. I asked you to come because you have
been so very brave, so very generous----’
She choked a little, but recovered herself quickly.
‘It is only just that I should tell you so before we say good-bye,’
she went on. ‘I knew I could trust you--but oh, I did not know how
much!’
‘I have only tried to do my duty,’ he answered.
‘You have done it like the brave man you are,’ said Maria.
‘Please----’ he spoke to interrupt her.
‘Yes,’ she went on, not heeding him. ‘We may not meet again, we
two, alone like this. One of us may die before that is possible.
So I shall say all that is in my thoughts, if I can. You most
know all, you must understand all, even if it hurts very much. My
husband is going to take me back altogether; he has forgiven me; he
asks me to be his wife again. Can I refuse?’
She had not meant to put the question to him, and he knew that she
expected no answer. Her tone showed that. But he would not let her
think that in his heart he rebelled against the knife.
‘No,’ he said very slowly. ‘I would not have you refuse what he
asks. It would be neither right nor just.’
In spite of the almost intolerable pain she was suffering, a glow
of wonder rose in her eyes; and there was no shadow of doubt to dim
it. At his worst, in the old days, he had always told the truth.
‘God bless you for that!’ she cried suddenly, and then her voice
dropped low. ‘You have travelled far on the good road since we last
talked together,’ she said. ‘Further than I.’
He shook his head gravely.
‘No,’ he answered. ‘You have led me, and I have followed.’
‘We have journeyed together,’ she said, ‘though we have been apart.
We may be separated, as we must be now, to the end, but we cannot
be divided any more. I wanted to tell you something else too, this
last time, and you have made it easy to say it, and altogether
right. It is this. I do not take back one word of what I said to
you and wrote to you before I knew Montalto was coming home. I do
not want you to think that I have changed my mind, or that the life
we were going to lead seems to me now one little bit less good and
true and honourable than it seemed to me that first time we talked
together here.’
‘Do you think I doubted you for a moment?’
‘You might. But it is only that other things have changed. We have
not, and I know we never shall, and in the end we are to meet where
there is peace, and somehow it will be right then, and we shall all
three understand that it is. Can you believe that too?’
‘I wish to. I shall try to. If anything could make a man believe in
God, it is the love of such a woman as you are.’
‘You have my love,’ Maria answered. ‘And some day you will believe
as I do, but in your own way, and we shall be together where there
are no partings. Yes, I am sure that we could have lived as we
meant to, and could have helped each other to rise higher and
higher, far above these dying bodies of ours. But we shall reach
the good end more quickly by our suffering than we ever could by
our happiness.’
‘That may be,’ said Castiglione, ‘but one thing is far more
certain: we must part now, cost what it may.’
‘Cost what it may!’ She pressed her hands to her eyes and was
silent a little while.
‘Has he spoken of Leone in his letters?’ Castiglione asked after a
time, in a tone that was almost timid.
Maria dropped her hands upon her knees at once and met his look.
‘Not to me,’ she answered. ‘But he gave orders about the child’s
room to the steward he sent from Montalto. Everything was to be
arranged for Leone just as I wished. That was all.’
‘Will he be kind to the boy, do you think?’ asked Castiglione, very
low.
‘I know he will try to be,’ Maria answered generously.
That was her greatest cause for fear in the future; it was the
stumbling-block she saw in the way of Montalto’s wish to take her
back; but although he might treat the boy coldly, and avoid seeing
him, and insist that he should be sent away to a school as soon as
he was old enough, she believed that her husband would be just, and
she was sure she should leave him if he were not. There was one
sacrifice which should not be exacted of her: she would not tamely
submit to see her child ill-treated. At that she would rebel, and
she would be dangerous for any man to face.
‘Yes,’ she repeated, ‘I know he will try to be kind.’
Castiglione merely nodded and said nothing, but Maria saw his
looks; and she was not all a saint yet, for with the sight came the
thrill of fierce elemental motherhood, rejoicing in the strength of
the man who could kill. There was nothing very saintly about that,
and she knew it.
‘We must not think of such things,’ she said, as she felt the deep
vibrations grow faint and die away. ‘Let us take it for granted
that my husband will be very just. That is all I have a right to
ask of him.’
Again Castiglione bent his head in assent. Then both were silent
for a long time.
‘Am I never to know anything of your life after this?’ he asked
suddenly.
‘You will know what every one may know,’ she said.
‘Nothing more? Only to hear that you are ill or well? Never to
be told whether he really does what he can to make it bearable
for you? May I not have news of you sometimes? Through Giuliana
Parenzo, for instance? Is it to be always outer darkness?’
‘Giuliana will know what you all will know, and no more,’ Maria
answered. ‘If I must not tell you what I suffer, do you think I
would tell her? I shall not tell myself!’ There was one bitter note
in that phrase. ‘You will always know something that no one else
can,’ she went on, and her voice softened. ‘And so shall I, and
that must be enough for us. Is it so little?’
‘Ah, no! It is all of us two that really lives!’
She heard the deeper tone of rising passion not far away, and she
interrupted him.
‘It is all I shall have for the rest of my life,’ she said, and she
rose suddenly and held out her hand, meaning that it was time to
part.
‘Already?’ he asked, not leaving his seat yet, and looking up
beseechingly.
‘Yes,’ she said. ‘You must not stay. We have told each other what
had to be said, and to say more would not be right. Less would not
have been just to you.’
He also had risen now and stood before her, meaning to be as brave
as she, cost what it might.
‘We are only human,’ she went on, ‘only a man and a woman alone
together, and if I let you stay longer this one last time, there
may be some word, some look, between us that we shall regret.
Though Diego is not here yet, I became his wife again in real truth
on the day I accepted his forgiveness; and as his wife, no word to
you shall pass my lips that he might not hear. We have tried to do
right, you and I; if we have not failed altogether, God help us
to do better! If we did wrong in those few sweet days, then God
pardon us! I thank you from my soul for being brave and true when
you might have dragged me down. For the past we have forgiven each
other, as we hope to be forgiven. And so good-bye. I would bless
you, if I dared; I can ask a blessing for you, and it will come; I
am sure it will. If I die first, I shall wait for you somewhere,
and you will come. If you are taken before me, wait for me!
Good-bye, good-bye, good-bye!’
Her voice was sweet and steady to the very end, but when he took
her hand at last it was cold, and it quivered in his. He began to
lift it to his lips, but it resisted him gently, and he obeyed its
resistance.
‘Good-bye,’ he said, as well as he could.
But she hardly heard the syllables; and then, in a moment, he was
gone.
CHAPTER XII
The day had come, and Maria was waiting alone for her husband
in one of the great rooms of the Palazzo Montalto. She had told
Leone that she would send for him when he was wanted, and he was
thoughtfully consoling himself for not being allowed to stay with
her by polishing the barrel of his tin rifle with his tooth-brush
and tooth powder, and he had the double satisfaction of seeing the
gun shine beautifully and of making the hated instrument useless
for its proper purpose. And meanwhile he wondered what his papa
would be like, and whether he should always hate him.
But Maria walked restlessly up and down the drawing-room, and her
head felt a little light. Now and then she stopped near one of
the open windows and listened for the sound of wheels below and
looked at her watch; and when she saw that it was still early, she
breathed more freely at first and sat down, trying to rest and
collect herself; but it was like thinking of resting ten minutes
before execution, and she rose almost directly and began to walk
again.
In her deep mourning she looked smaller and slighter in the great
room than in the simpler surroundings she had left. She had indeed
grown a little thinner of late, but she was not ill, nor even as
tired as she had expected to be at the crucial moment. The people
who feel most are not those whose nerves go to pieces in trouble,
and who get absolute rest then by the doctor’s orders; they are
more often those who are condemned to bear much, for the very
reason that they cannot break down. In the age of torture the weak
fainted or died and felt no more, but the strong were conscious and
