something of the poet in me, and it is still there, only it no longer
develops on paper. I had looked toward Washington ... even toward you,
Betty."

Silence. The girl sat very still. Her face was white and her eyes large.

"I am honest. I can see now that I have no business in politics...." He
laughed suddenly and turned toward the girl. "I was on the verge of
wailing. I'm licked, and I must begin all over again. Dick will make a
good mayor, that is, if they leave him alone.... Whimsical, wasn't it,
of me, coming here to have you tell me the news?" He looked away.

The girl smiled and held out her hand to him, and as he did not see it,
laid it gently on his sleeve.

"It does not matter, John. Some day you will realize all your ambitions.
You are not the kind of man who gives up. Defeat is a necessary step to
greatness; and you will become great. I am glad that you came to me."
She knew now; all her doubts were gone, all the confusing shadows.

Newcomb turned and touched her hand with his lips.

"Why did you come to me?" she asked with fine courage.

His eyes widened. "Why did I come to you? If I had won I should have
told you. But I haven't won; I have lost."

"Does that make the difference so great?"

"It makes the difficulty greater."

"Tell me!" with a voice of command.

They both rose suddenly, rather unconsciously, too. Their glances held,
magnet and needle-wise. Across the street a bonfire blazed, and the
ruddy light threw a mellow rose over their strained faces.

"I love you," he said simply. "That is what drew me here, that is what
has always drawn me here. But say nothing to me, Betty. God knows I am
not strong enough to suffer two defeats in one night. God bless you and
make you happy!"

He turned and took a few steps toward the door.

"If it were not defeat ... if it were victory?" she said, in a kind of
whisper, her hands on the back of the chair.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The senator came in about midnight. He found his daughter asleep in a
chair before a half-dead fire. There was a tender smile on her lips. He
touched her gently.

"It is you, daddy?" Her glance traveled from his florid countenance to
the clock. "Mercy! I have been dreaming these two hours."

"What do you suppose Newcomb did to-night?" lighting a cigar.

"What did he do?"

"Came into the club and congratulated Williard publicly."

"He did that?" cried the girl, her cheeks dyeing exquisitely.

"Did it like a man, too." The senator dropped into a chair. "It was a
great victory, my girl."

Betty smiled. "Yes, it was."




                  THE ADVENT OF MR. "SHIFTY" SULLIVAN


                                   I


"IT is positively dreadful!"

Even with the puckered brow and drooping lips, Mrs. Cathewe was a most
charming young person.

Absently she breathed upon the chilled window-pane, and with the pink
horn of her tapering forefinger drew letters and grotesque noses and
millions on millions of money.

Who has not, at one time or another, pursued art and riches in this
harmless fashion?

The outlook--from the window, not the millions--was not one to promote
any degree of cheerfulness, being of darkness, glistening pavements and
a steady, blurring rain; and at this particular moment Mrs. Cathewe was
quite in sympathy with the outlook; that is to say, dismal.

"Only last week," she went on, "it was an actor out of employ, a man
with reversible cuffs and a celluloid collar; but even he knew the
difference between bouillon and tea. And now, Heaven have mercy, it is a
prize-fighter!"

Mrs. Cathewe reopened the note which in her wrath she had crushed in her
left hand, and again read it aloud:

    "DEAR NANCY--Am bringing home Sullivan, the boxer, to dinner.
    Now, ducky, don't get mad. I want to study him at close range.
    You know that I am to have a great boxing scene in my new book,
    and this study is absolutely necessary. In haste.        JACK."

Mrs. Cathewe turned pathetically to her companion.

"Isn't it awful? A prize-fighter, in spite of all this reform movement!
A pugilist!"

"A pug, as my brother would tersely but inelegantly express it," and
Caroline Boderick lifted an exquisitely molded chin and laughed; a
rollicking laugh which, in spite of her endeavor to remain unmoved,
twisted up the corners of Mrs. Cathewe's rebel mouth.

"Forgive me, Nan, if I laugh; but who in the world could help it? It is
so droll. This is the greatest house! Imagine, I had the blues the worst
kind of way to-day; and now I shall be laughing for a whole week. You
dear girl, what do you care? You'll be laughing, too, presently. When a
woman marries a successful painter or a popular novelist, she will find
that she has wedded also a life full of surprises, full of amusing
scenes; ennui is a word cast forth to wander among commonplace folk.
Your husband must have his model, just the same as if he were an artist,
which he undeniably is."

"Models!" scornfully. "I wish he were a romanticist. I declare, if this
realism keeps on, I shall go and live in the country!"

"And have your husband's curios remain all night instead of simply
dining." And Caroline pressed her hands against her sides.

"That is it; laugh, laugh! Carol, you have no more sympathy than a
turtle."

"You are laughing yourself," said Caroline.

"It is because I'm looking at you. Why, I am positively raging!" She
tore her husband's letter into shreds and cast them at her feet. "Jack
is always upsetting my choicest plans."

"And my sobriety. If I had a husband like yours I should always be the
happiest and merriest woman in the world. What a happy woman you must
and ought to be!"

"I am, Carol, I am; but there are times when Jack is as terrible and
uncertain as Mark Twain's New England weather. Supposing I had been
giving a big dinner to-night? It would have been just the same."

"Only more amusing. Fancy Mrs. Nottingham-Stuart taking inventory of
this Mr. Sullivan through that pince-nez of hers!"

A thought suddenly sobered Mrs. Cathewe.

"But whatever shall I do, Carol? I have invited the rector to dine with
us."

Mirth spread its sunny wings and flew away, leaving Caroline's beautiful
eyes thoughtful and contemplative. "I understood that it was to be a
very little dinner for the family."

"Carol, why don't you like the rector? He is almost handsome."

"I do like him, Nan."

"Oh, I don't mean in that way," impulsively.

"In what way?" asked Caroline, her voice losing some of its warmth.

"Passively."

The faint, perpendicular line above Caroline's nose was the only sign of
her displeasure.

"Has he proposed to you?"

"Gracious sakes! one would think that the rector was in love with me.
Nan, you are very embarrassing when you look like that. Match-making
isn't your forte. Besides, the rector and I do not get on very well.
Bifurcated riding skirts are not to his fancy; and I would not give up
my morning ride for the best man living. Oh, Nan, you ought to ride a
horse; there's nothing like it in the world."

"The rector has called upon you more than any other girl in town." When
Mrs. Cathewe had an idea, she was very persistent about it. "I have even
seen him watching you when delivering a sermon."

Caroline laughed.

"Calling doesn't signify. And you must remember, daddy is the banker of
St. Paul's. No, Nan; I don't mean that; I am sure that the rector's
calls have nothing to do with the finances of the church. But, to tell
the truth, daddy calls him a mollycoddle; says he hasn't enough
gumption--whatever that may be--to stand up for himself at the trustees'
meetings. All the trustees are opposed to him because he is not over
thirty."

"And the best-looking rector the church ever had," supplemented Mrs.
Cathewe.

"But a mollycoddle, Nan! You wouldn't have me marry a mollycoddle, would
you?" There was a covert plea in her tones which urged Mrs. Cathewe
emphatically to deny that the Reverend Richard Allen was a mollycoddle.

Mrs. Cathewe did deny it. "He is not a mollycoddle, and you very well
know it. Jack says that his meekness and humility is all a sham."

"A hypocrite!" sitting up very straight.

"Mercy, no! His meekness is merely a sign of splendid self-control. No
man could be a mollycoddle and have eyes like his. True, they are mild,
but of the mildness of the sea on a calm day. 'Ware of the hurricane!"

"Has Mr. Cathewe found out yet to what college he belonged before he
became a divinity student?"

"No; and even I have never had the courage to ask him. But Jack thinks
it is Harvard, because the rector let slip one day something about
Cambridge. Why don't you write to ask your brother about him?"

For reasons best known to herself, Caroline did not answer.

"Are you ever going to get married? You are twenty-four."

Caroline was laughing again; but it was not the same spirit of mirth
that had been called into life by the possible and probable advent of
Mr. "Shifty" Sullivan.

"You ought to get married," declared Mrs. Cathewe. "Think of the dinners
and teas I should give, following the announcement."

"It is almost worth the risk," mockingly. Caroline arose and walked over
to the grate and sat down in the Morris chair. She took up the tongs and
stirred the maple log. The spurt of flame discovered a face almost as
beautiful as it was interesting and amiable. Her principal claim to
beauty, however, lay in her eyes, which were large and brown, with a
glister of gold in the rim of that part of the iris which immediately
surrounded the pupil. With these eyes she was fascinating; even her
dearest friends admitted this; and she was without caprices, which is a
rare trait in a beautiful woman. She was also as independent as the
Declaration which her mother's grandfather signed a hundred and some odd
years before. She came naturally into the spirit, her father being a
retired army officer, now the financial mainstay of St. Paul's, of which
the Reverend Richard Allen had recently been duly appointed rector.

It is propitious to observe at once that the general possessed an
unreliable liver and a battered shin which always ached with rheumatism
during rainy weather. Only two persons dared to cross him on stormy
days--his daughter and his son. The son was completing his final year at
Harvard in the double capacity of so-and-so on the 'varsity crew and
some-place-or-other on the eleven, and felt the importance of the luster
which he was adding to the historic family name. But this story in
nowise concerns him; rather the adventures of Mr. Sullivan, the
pugilist, and the rector of St. Paul.

"Mollycoddle," mused Caroline, replacing the tongs.

"Oh, your father's judgment is not infallible."

"It is where courage is concerned," retorted Caroline.

"Well, what's a mollycoddle, anyway?" demanded Mrs. Cathewe, forgetting
for the time being her own imminent troubles.

"Does Webster define it? I do not recall. But at any rate the accepted
meaning of the word is a person without a backbone, a human being with
rubber vertebræ, as daddy expresses it."

"Oh, fudge! your father likes men who slam doors, talk loudly, and bang
their fists in their palms."

"Not always," smiling; "at least on days like this."

"Yes, I understand," replied Mrs. Cathewe, laughing. "B-r-r-r! I can see
him. Jack says he eats them alive, whatever he means by that."

"Poor daddy!"

"I remember the late rector. Whenever he made a begging call he first
asked the servant at the door, 'How's the general's liver to-day?' 'Bad,
bad, your worship.' I overheard this dialogue one day while waiting for
you. I had to bury my head in the sofa pillows."

"You are going to have Brussels sprouts for salad?"

"Yes. Why?" amused at this queer turn in the conversation.

"I was wondering if your Mr. Sullivan will call them amateur cabbages?"

"Why did you remind me of him? I had almost forgotten him."

"If only I can keep a sober face!" said Caroline, clasping her hands.
"If he wears a dress suit, it is sure to pucker across the shoulders, be
short in the sleeves, and generally wrinkled. He will wear a huge yellow
stone, and his hair will be clipped close to the skull. It will be
covered with as many white scars as a map with railroad tracks. 'Mr.
Sullivan, permit me to introduce the Reverend Richard Allen.' 'Sure.'
Oh, it is rich!" And the laughter which followed smothered the sound of
closing doors. "Nan, it is a tonic. I wish I were a novelist's wife.
'Mr. Sullivan, I am charmed to meet you.' I can imagine the rector's
horror."

"And what is going to horrify the rector?" asked a manly voice from the
doorway.

Both women turned guiltily, each uttering a little cry of surprise and
dismay. They beheld a young man of thirty, of medium height, who looked
shorter than he really was because of the breadth of his shoulders. His
face was clean-shaven and manly; the head was well developed, the chin
decided, the blue-gray eyes alight with animation and expectancy. The
clerical frock was buttoned closely to the throat, giving emphasis to
the splendid breathing powers concealed beneath. The Reverend Richard
Allen looked all things save the mollycoddle, as the flush on Caroline's
cheeks conceded. And as she arose, she vaguely wondered how much he had
heard.

The rector, being above all things a gentleman, did not press his
question. He came forward and shook hands, and then spread his fingers
over the crackling log.

"What do you suppose has happened to me this day?" he began, turning his
back to the blaze and looking first at Mrs. Cathewe because she was his
hostess, and then at Caroline because she was the woman who lived first
in his thoughts.

"You have found a worthy mendicant?" suggested Caroline, taking up the
hand-screen and shading her eyes.

"Cold, cold."

"You have been asked to make an address before some woman's club," Mrs.
Cathewe offered.

"Still cold. No. The Morning Post has asked me, in the interests of
reform, to write up the prize-fight to-morrow night between Sullivan and
McManus, setting forth the contest in all its brutality."

The two women looked at each other and laughed nervously. The same
thought had occurred to each.

"Mr. Allen," said Mrs. Cathewe, deciding immediately to explain the
cause of her merriment, "as you entered you must have overheard us speak
of a Mr. Sullivan. You know how eccentric Mr. Cathewe is. Well, when I
invited you to dine this evening I had no idea that this husband of mine
was going to bring home Mr. Sullivan in order to study him at close
range, as a possible character in a new book he is writing."

The rector stroked his chin. Caroline, observing him shyly, was positive
that the luster in his eyes was due to suppressed laughter.

"That will be quite a diversion," he said, seating himself. What a
charming profile this girl possessed! Heigh-ho! between riches and
poverty the chasm grew wide.

"And we have been amusing ourselves by dissecting Mr. Sullivan," added
the woman with the charming profile. "I suggested that if he wore a
dress suit it would be either too large or too small."

"Mercy!" exclaimed Mrs. Cathewe, rising suddenly as the hall door
slammed, "I believe he has come already. Whatever shall I do, Carol,
whatever shall I do?" in a loud whisper.

The rector got up and smiled at Caroline, who returned the smile. In the
matter of appreciating humor, she and the rector stood upon common
ground.

Presently the novelist and his guest entered. Both he and Mr. Sullivan
appeared to be in the best of spirits, for their mouths were twisted in
grins.

"My dear," began Cathewe, "this is Mr. Sullivan; Mr. Sullivan, Miss
Boderick and the Reverend Richard Allen, of St. Paul's."

"I am delighted," said Mr. Sullivan, bowing.

There was not a wrinkle in Mr. Sullivan's dress suit; there were no
diamond studs in his shirt bosom, no watch-chain; just the rims of his
cuffs appeared, and these were of immaculate linen. His hair was black
and thick and soft as hair always is that is frequently subjected to
soap and water. In fact, there was only one sign which betrayed Mr.
Sullivan's profitable but equivocal business in life, and this was an
ear which somewhat resembled a withered mushroom.

Caroline was disconcerted; she was even embarrassed. This pleasant-faced
gentleman bowing to her was as far removed from her preconceived idea of
a pugilist as the earth is removed from the sun. She did not know--as
the wise writer knows--that it is only pugilists who can not fight who
are all scarred and battered. She saw the rector shake Mr. Sullivan's
hand. From him her gaze roved to Mrs. Cathewe, and the look of
perplexity on that young matron's face caused her to smother the sudden
wild desire to laugh.

"My dear, I shall leave you to entertain Mr. Sullivan while I change my
clothes;" and Cathewe rushed from the room. He was a man who could not
hold in laughter very successfully.

"Come over to the fire and warm yourself," said the rector pleasantly.
The look of entreaty in Mrs. Cathewe's eyes could not possibly be
ignored.

Mr. Sullivan crossed the room, gazing about curiously.

"I haven't th' slightest idea, ma'am," said the famed pugilist,
addressing his hostess, "what your husband's graft is; but I understand
he's a literary fellow that writes books, an' I suppose he knows why he
ast me here t' eat."

Caroline sighed with relief; his voice was very nearly what she expected
it would be.

"An' besides," continued Mr. Sullivan, "I'm kind o' curious myself t'
see you swells get outside your feed. I ain't stuck on these togs,
generally; a man's afraid t' breathe hearty."

Mrs. Cathewe shuddered slightly; Mr. Sullivan was rubbing the cold from
his fungus-like ear. What should she do to entertain this man? she
wondered. She glanced despairingly at Caroline; but Caroline was looking
at the rector, who in turn seemed absorbed in Mr. Sullivan. She was
without help; telegraphic communication was cut off, as it were.

"Do you think it will snow to-night?" she asked.

"It looks like it would," answered Mr. Sullivan, with a polite but
furtive glance at the window. "Though there'll be a bigger push out
to-morrer if it's clear. It's goin' t' be a good fight. D' you ever see
a scrap, sir?" he asked, turning to the rector.

Caroline wondered if it was the fire or the rector's own blood which
darkened his cheek.

"I belong to the clergy," said the rector softly; "it is our duty not to
witness fights, but to prevent them."

"Now, I say!" remonstrated Mr. Sullivan, "you folks run around in your
autos, knock down people an' frighten horses, so's they run away; you go
out an' kill thousands of birds an' deer an' fish, an' all that; an' yet
you're th' first t' holler when two healthy men pummel each other for a
livin'. You ain't consistent. Why, th' hardest punch I ever got never
pained me more'n an hour, an' I took th' fat end of th' purse at that.
When you're a kid, ain't you always quarrelin' an' scrappin'? Sure.
Sometimes it was with reason an' cause, an' again jus' plain love of
fightin'. Well, that's me. I fight because I like it, an' because it
pays. Sure. It's on'y natural for some of us t' fight all th' time; an'
honest, I'm dead weary of th' way th' papers yell about th' brutal
prize-fight. If I want t' get my block punched off, that's my affair;
an' I don't see what business some old fussies have in interferin'."

"It isn't really the fighting, Mr. Sullivan," replied the rector, who
felt compelled to defend his point of view; "it's the rough element
which is always brought to the surface during these engagements. Men
drink and use profane language and wager money."

"As t' that, I don't say;" and Mr. Sullivan moved his hands in a manner
which explained his inability to account for the transgressions of the
common race.

"What's a block?" whispered Mrs. Cathewe into Caroline's ear.

Caroline raised her eyebrows; she had almost surrendered to the first
natural impulse, that of raising her hands above her head, as she had
often seen her brother do when faced by an unanswerable question.

The trend of conversation veered. Mr. Sullivan declared that he would
never go upon the stage, and all laughed. Occasionally the women
ventured timidly to offer an observation which invariably caused Mr.
Sullivan to loose an expansive grin. And when he learned that the rector
was to witness the fight in the capacity of a reporter, he enjoyed the
knowledge hugely.

Presently Cathewe appeared, and dinner was announced. Mr. Sullivan sat
between his host and hostess. No, he would not have a cocktail nor a
highball; he never drank. Mrs. Cathewe straightway marked him down as a
rank impostor. Didn't prize-fighters always drink and carouse and get
locked up by the police officers?

"Well, this is a new one on me," Mr. Sullivan admitted, as he tasted of
his caviar and quietly dropped his fork. "May I ask what it is?"

"It's Russian caviar. It is like Russian literature; one has to
cultivate a taste for it." The novelist glanced amusedly at the rector.

"It reminds me of what happened t' me at White Plains a couple of years
ago. I was in trainin' that fall at Mulligan's. You've heard of
Mulligan; greatest man on th' mat in his time. Well, I bucked up against
French spinach. Says he: 'Eat it.' Says I, 'I don't like it.' Says he,
'I don't care whether you like it or not. I don't like your mug, but I
have t' put up with it. Eat that spinach.' Says I, 'I don't see how I
can eat it if I don't like it.' An' an hour after he gives me th' bill,
an' I'd have had on'y thirty minutes t' get out but for th' housekeeper,
who patched it up. Those were great times. Sure. Well, no spinach or
caviar in mine. Now say, what's th' game? Do you want my history, or
jus' a scrap or two?"

"Describe how you won the championship from McGonegal," said Cathewe
eagerly, nodding to the butler to serve the oysters.

Mr. Sullivan toyed with the filigree butter-knife, mentally deciding
that its use was for cutting pie. He cast an oblique glance at the
immobile countenance of the English butler, and ahemmed.

"Well," he began, "it was like this...."

As Mr. Sullivan went on, a series of whispered questions and answers was
started between Caroline and the rector.

Caroline: What does he mean by "block"?

The Rector: His head, I believe.

Caroline: Oh!

Mr. Sullivan: There wasn't much doin' in th' third round. We fiddled a
while. On'y once did either of us get t' th' ropes ... an' th' bell
rang. Th' fourth was a hot one; hammer an' tongs from th' start off. He
hooked me twice on th' wind, and I handed him out a jolt on th' jaw that
put him t' th' mat.... I had th' best of th' round.

Caroline: In mercy's sake, what does he mean by "slats"?

The Rector (seized with a slight coughing): Possibly his ribs.

Caroline: Good gracious! (Whether this ejaculation was caused by
surprise or by the oyster on which she had put more horse-radish than
was suited to her palate, will always remain a mystery.)

Mr. Sullivan: We were out for gore th' fift' round. He was gettin'
strong on his hooks.

Mrs. Cathewe (interrupting him with great timidity): What do you mean
by "hooks"?

Mr. Sullivan: It's a blow like this. (Illustrates and knocks over the
centerpiece. Water and flowers spread over the table.) I say, now, look
at that. Ain't I a Mike now, t' knock over th' flower-pot like that?

Cathewe: Never mind that, Mr. Sullivan. Go on with the fight.

Mr. Sullivan: Where was I? Oh, yes; he put it all over me that
round.... They had counted eight when th' bell rang an' saved me.

Caroline: Hit him on the phonograph!

The Rector (reddening): It is possible that he refers to Mr.
McGonegal's mouth.

Caroline: Well, I never! And I've got a slangy brother, too, at
Harvard.

(The rector looks gravely at his empty oyster-shells.)

Mr. Sullivan: Things went along about even till th' tenth, when I
blacked his lamps.

Caroline: Lamps?

The Rector: Eyes, doubtless.

Caroline: It's getting too deep for me.

Mr. Sullivan: The last round I saw that I had him goin' all right. In
two seconds I had burgundy flowin' from his trombone.

(Cathewe leans back in his chair and laughs.)

Mrs. Cathewe (bewilderingly): Burgundy?

Mr. Sullivan (rather impatiently): A jolt on th' nose. Well, there was
some more waltzin', and then a hook an' a swing, an' him on th' mat,
down an' out. I made six thousand, an' on'y got this tin ear t' show for
my trouble.

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was fully ten o'clock when the coffee was served. Mr. Sullivan may
have lost not a few "e's" and "g's" in the passing, but for all that he
proved no small entertainment; and when he arose with the remark that he
was "for th' tall pines," both ladies experienced an amused regret.

"Which way do you go?" asked Mr. Sullivan, laying his hand on the
rector's arm.

"I pass your hotel. I shall be pleased to walk with you."

"I say," suddenly exclaimed Mr. Sullivan, pressing his pudgy fingers
into the rector's arm, "where did you get this arm? Why, it is as tough
as a railroad tie."

"A course of physical culture," said the rector, visibly embarrassed.

"Physical culture? All right. But don't ever get mad at me," laughed Mr.
Sullivan. "It's as big as a pile-driver."

The novelist told Mr. Sullivan that he was very much obliged for his
company.

"Don't mention it. Drop int' th' fight to-morrer night. You'll get more
ideas there'n you will hearin' me shoot hot air."

Cathewe looked slyly at his wife. He was a man, and more than once he
had slipped away from the club and taken in the last few rounds, and
then had returned home to say what a dull night he had had at the club.

Mrs. Cathewe had her arm lovingly around Caroline's waist. All at once
she felt Caroline start.

"What is it?" she whispered.

"Nothing, nothing!" Caroline declared quickly.

But on the way home in her carriage Caroline wondered where the Reverend
Richard Allen, rector of St. Paul's, had acquired his tin ear.




                                   II


    "DEAR SIS--Yours received. Have hunted up the name, and have
    found that your Reverend Richard Allen is an '89 man, one of the
    best all-round men we ever had on the track. He was a terror,
    too, so an old grad tells me. Got kicked out in his senior year.
    It seems that his chum and roommate was very deeply in the hole,
    not extravagantly, like yours truly, but by a series of hard
    knocks. Allen had no cash himself. And you know when you haven't
    any money in sight, you can't borrow any. One night at the
    Museum (there was a cheap show on) a prize-fighter offered $300
    to any one who would stand up before him for five rounds. Allen
    jumped up on the stage and licked the pug to a standstill. He
    got a bad swipe on the ear, however; and if your Allen has what
    they call a tin ear, an ear that looks as if my best bullpup had
    tried to make his dinner off it, ecce homo! He paid his mate's
    debts, and then was requested to call on the fac. The old ladies
    told him to pack up. He did. He has never returned to college
    since. But why do you want to know all about him? They say he
    was a handsome duffer. You know I haven't seen him yet, not
    having been home since last Easter time. Now, for Heaven's sake,
    Sis, don't go and get daffy on his Riverince. I've got a man in
    tow for you, the best fellow that ever lived.

                            Affectionately,                 JACK."

    "P.S.--Can't you shove a couple of 50's in your next letter to
    me? The governor's liver wasn't in good shape the first of the
    month."

Caroline dropped the letter into her lap and stared out of the window.
It was snowing great, soft, melting flakes. She did not know whether to
laugh or to cry, nor what occasioned this impulse to do either. So he
was a Cambridge man, and had been expelled for prize-fighting; for
certainly it had been prize-fighting, even though the motive had been a
good and manly one.

"A milksop!" There was no doubt, no hesitancy; her laughter rang out
fresh and clear. What would her father say when he learned the truth?
Her next thought was, why should the rector pose as a lamb, patient and
unspeaking, when all the time he was a lion? She alone had solved the
mystery. It was self-control, it was power. This discovery filled her
with a quiet exultation. She was a woman, and to unravel a secret was as
joyful a task for her as to invent a fashionable hat.

The bygone rectors had interested her little; they had been either
pedants, fanatics, or social drones; while this man had gone about his
work quietly and modestly. He never said: "I visited the poor to-day."
It was the poor who said: "The rector was here to-day with money and
clothes." But his past he let remain nebulous; not even the trustees
themselves had peered far into it, at least not as far back as the
Cambridge days. Thus, the element of mystery surrounding him first
attracted her; the man's personality added to this. The knowledge that
he was a college man seemed to place him nearer her social level, though
she was not a person to particularize so long as a man proved himself;
and the rector had, beyond a doubt, proved himself.

There were dozens of brilliant young men following eagerly in her train.
They rode with her, drove with her, and fought for the privilege of
playing caddy to her game. Yet, while she liked them all, she cared
particularly for none. The rector, being a new species of man, became a
study. Time and time again she had invited him to the Country Club; he
always excused himself on the ground that he was taking a course of
reading such as to demand all his spare time in the day. One morning she
had been riding alone, and had seen him tramping across country. In the
spirit of fun she took a couple of fences and caught up with him. He had
appeared greatly surprised, even embarrassed, for her woman's eye had
been quick to read. She had rallied him upon his stride. He had become
silent. And this man had "jumped upon the stage and licked the pug to a
standstill!"

"Carol, are you there?"

Caroline started and hid the letter. She arose and admitted her father.

"James says that you received a letter this afternoon. Was it from the
boy? Begging for money? Well, don't you dare to send it to him. The
ragamuffin has overdrawn seven hundred dollars this month. What's he
think I am, a United States Steel Corporation?"

"He has asked me for one hundred dollars, and I am going to send it to
the poor boy to-night."

"Oh, you are, are you? Who's bringing up the scalawag, you or I?"

"You are trying to, daddy, but I believe he's bent on bringing himself
up." She ran her fingers through his hair. "I know the weather's bad,
daddy, but don't be cross. Come over to the piano and I'll play for
you."

"I don't want any music," gruffly.

"Come," dragging him.

"That's the way; I have no authority in this house. But, seriously,
Carol, the boy's spending it pretty fast, and it will not do him a bit
of good. I want to make a man out of him, not a spendthrift. Play that
what-d'you-call-it from Chopin."

"The Berceuse?" seating herself at the piano.

The twilight of winter was fast settling down. The house across the way
began to glow at various windows. Still she played. From Chopin she
turned to Schumann, from Schumann to Rubinstein, back to Chopin's
polonaise and the nocturne in E flat major.

"You play those with a livelier spirit than usual," was the general's
only comment. How these haunting melodies took him back to the past,
when the girl's mother played them in the golden courting days! He could
not see the blush his comment had brought to his daughter's cheek. "My
dear, my dear!" he said, with great tenderness, sliding his arm around
her waist, "I know that I'm cross at times, but I'm only an old barking
dog; don't do any harm. I'll tell you what, if my leg's all right next
Saturday I'll ride out to the Country Club with you, and we'll have tea
together."

She leaned toward him and kissed him. "Daddy, what makes you think so
meanly of the rector? I was thinking of him when you came in."

"I don't think meanly of him; but, hang it, Carol, he always says 'Yes'
when I want him to say 'No,' and vise versa. He's too complacent. I
like a man who's a human being to kick once in a while, a man who's got
some fight in him.... What are you laughing at, you torment?"

"At something which just occurred to me. There goes the gong for dinner.
I am ravenous."

"By the way, I forgot to tell you what I saw in the evening edition of
the Post. Your parson is going to report the prize-fight to-night.
He'll be frightened out of his shoes. I'm going up to the club; going to
play a few rubbers. It'll make me forget my grumbling leg. You run over
to Cathewe's or telephone Mrs. Cathewe to run over here."

"Can't you stay in to-night? I don't want anybody but you."

"But I've half promised; besides, I'm sort of blue. I need the
excitement."

"Very well; I'll telephone Nan. Mr. Cathewe will probably go to that
awful fight in the interests of his new book. She'll come."

"Cathewe's going to the fight, you say? Humph!" The general scratched
his ear thoughtfully.




                                  III


THE auditorium was a great barn-like building which had been erected
originally for the purpose of a roller-skating rink. Nowadays the
charity bazaars were held there, the balls, political mass-meetings,
amateur dramatics, and prize-fights.

Cathewe, as he gazed curiously around, pictured to himself the contrast
between the Thanksgiving ball of the past week and the present scene,
and fell into his usual habit of philosophizing. His seat was high up in
the gallery. What faces he saw through the blue and choking haze of
smoke! Saloon keepers, idlers, stunted youth, blasé men about town, with
a sprinkling of respectable business men, who ever and anon cast hasty
and guilty glances over their shoulders, and when caught would raise a
finger as if to say: "You rogue, what are you doing here?"--these and
other sights met his interested eye. Even he confessed to himself that
his presence here was not all due to the gathering of color for his new
book. Self-analysis discovered to him that the animal in him was eagerly
awaiting the arrival of the fighters. Such is human nature.

Down below he saw the raised platform, strongly protected by ropes.
Around this were the reporters' tables, the telegraph operators' desks,
a few chairs for the privileged friends of the press, and pails, towels
and sponges. Yes, there was the rector, sitting at one of the reporters'
tables, erect in his chair, his gaze bent upon his paper pad, apparently
oblivious to his strange surroundings. Cathewe wondered what was going
on in that somewhat mystifying mind. He certainly would have been
surprised could he have read.

In fact, the rector was going over again his own memorable battle in
Boston some ten years ago. He was thinking how it had changed his whole
career, how it had swerved him from the bar to the pulpit.

Ah, to be within the magic circle of her presence, to be within sight
and touch all his life, sometimes to hear her voice lifted in song, the
smooth, white fingers bringing to life the poetry of sound! He had
ceased to lie to himself. He loved, with all his heart, with all his
soul. He had given up; he had surrendered completely; but she was never
to know. Even at this moment poverty took him to the mount and showed
him the abyss between him and his heart's desire. He was aroused from
his dreams by a sudden commotion, a subdued murmur. Mr. Sullivan's
antagonist, dressed in a gaudy sky-blue bath-robe, was crawling under
the ropes, followed by his seconds. The murmur grew into a prolonged
cheer when Mr. Sullivan shortly followed in a bath-robe, even richer in
hues.

The reporters shifted their writing-pads, lighted fresh cigars, and drew
their legs under the tables. The sporting editor of the Post turned to
the rector.

"I'll tip you off on the technicalities of the scrap," he said. "All you
need to do is to watch the men and describe what they do in your own
way."

"Thank you," replied the rector. He was calm. When Mr. Sullivan nodded
pleasantly, he smiled.

The men in the ring threw aside their bath-robes, and stood forth in all
the splendor of their robust physiques. A short, pompous man, wearing a
watch-chain which threatened to disconcert his physical balance, stepped
to the ropes and held up his hand. Silence suddenly fell upon two
thousand men.

"Th' preliminary is off; th' 'Kid' refuses to go on because th' 'Dago'
didn't weigh in as agreed. Th' main bout will now take place. Mr.
Sullivan t' th' right, an' Mr. McManus t' th' left." The pompous man
took out a greasy telegram from his pocket, and said: "Lanky Williams
challenges th' winner fer a purse an' a side bet of fi' thousan'."

He was cheered heartily. Nobody cared about the preliminary "go"; it was
Sullivan and McManus the spectators had paid their money to see.

The rector recalled the scenes in Quo Vadis, and shrugged his
shoulders. Human nature never changes; only politics and fashions. He
himself was vaguely conscious of a guilty thrill as he saw the two men
step from their corners and shake hands.

As this is a story not of how Mr. "Shifty" Sullivan won his battle from
Mr. McManus, but of how the rector of St. Paul's nearly lost his, I
shall not dwell upon the battle as it was fought by rounds. Let it
suffice that the crisis came during the twelfth round. Sullivan was
having the best of this round, though in the four previous he had been
worsted. The men came together suddenly, and there was some rough
in-fighting. The pompous man, who was the referee, was kept on the jump.
One could hear the pad-pad of blows and the scrape-scrape of shoes on
the resined mat, so breathless were the spectators. The boxers became
tangled.

"Foul, foul!"

The voice rang out strong and distinct. It was not the referee's voice,
for the referee himself looked angrily down whence the voice came.
Sullivan, his face writhed in agony, was clinging desperately to his
opponent.

"A foul blow!"

Pandemonium. Everybody was yelling, half not knowing why.

The seconds and trainers were clambering into the ring. The referee
separated the boxers. They rushed at each other furiously. The seconds
stepped in between. A general mix-up followed, during which the pompous
man lost his silk hat.

The reporter for the Post pulled the rector's coat tails, and the
rector sank into his chair, pale and terrified. He had forgotten!
Carried away by his old love of clean fighting, by his love of physical
contests, he had forgotten, forgotten!

"Foul! It was a foul!"

"Ye-a! Ye-a! Foul blow!"

"Bully fer th' parson!"

"Sullivan, Sullivan!"

"McManus!"

"Foul, foul! T'row out th' referee!"

"Give th' deacon a show fer his money!"

These and a thousand other cries rose in the vicinity of the rector.
Those reporters whose city editors had not thought of the stroke of
sending a minister of the gospel to report the fight were delighted.
Here was a story worth forty fights, a story to delight thousands and
thousands who looked upon St. Paul's as a place where only the rich
might worship.

"I declare the fight a draw, an' all bets off!" howled the referee,
wiping the dust from his damaged hat, which he had at length recovered.

The rector rose to move down the aisle to the entrance. He felt morally
