Nebuchadnezzar, that of Daniel, and other novels quite as strange,
evolved long later in the wide leisures of Jerusalem. The fluidic hand
did not appear. Even had it zigzagged there was no Belshazzar to
frighten.
Only the doom was real. Cyrus was clothed with it. To the trumpetings
of heralds and the sheen of angels' wings, triumphantly he came. Then,
presently, by royal decree, the Jews, manumitted and released,
retraced their steps, burdened with spoil; with the lore of two
distinct civilizations, which, fusing in the great square letters of
the Pentateuch, was to become the poetry of all mankind.
Babylon, ultimately, with her goblin gods and harlot goddess, sank
into her own Aralû. Nourished there on dust, Lilît, with the sister
vampires of eternal night, fed on her.
V
JEHOVAH
A camel's-hair tent set in the desert was the first cathedral, the
earliest cloister of latest ideals. Set not in one desert merely but
in two, in the infinite of time as well as in that of space, there was
about it a limitlessness in which the past could sleep, the future
awake, and into which all things, the human, the divine, gods and
romance, could enter.
The human came first. Then the gods. Then romance. The divine was
their triple expansion. It was an after growth, in other lands, that
tears had watered. In the desert it was unimagined. Only the gods had
been conceived.
The gods were many and yet but one. Though plural they were singular.
The subjects of impersonal verbs, they represented the pronoun in such
expressions as: it rains; it thunders. "It" was Elohim. Already among
nomad Semites monotheism had begun. Yet with this distinction. Each
tribe had separate sets of Its that guided, guarded, and scourged.
Omnipresent but not omnipotent, any humiliation to the family that
they had in charge humiliated them. It made them angry, therefore
vindictive, consequently unjust. It may be that they were not very
ethical. Perhaps the bedouins were not either. Man fashions his god in
proportion to his intelligence. That of the nomad was slender. He
lacked, what the Aryan shepherd possessed, the ability for
mythological invention. The defect was due to his speech, which did
not lend itself to the deification of epithets. Even had it done so,
it is probable that his mode of life would have rendered the
paraphernalia of polytheism impossible. People constantly moving from
place to place could not be cumbered with idols. The Elohim were,
therefore, a convenience for travellers and an unidolatrous monotheism
a necessity which the absence of vehicles imposed. On the other hand,
given every facility, it is presumable that the result would have been
the same. Mythology is the mother of poetry. Idolatry is the father of
art. Neither could appeal to a people to whom delicacy was an unknown
god. Had it been known and a fetish, they could not have become the
practical people that they are. Even then they were shrewd. Their
Elohim might alarm but never delude. Israel was uncheatable even in
dream.
Originally emigrants from Arabia, the nomads reached Syria, some
directly, others circuitously, by way of Padan-Aram and across the
Euphrates, whence perhaps their name of Ibrim or Hebrews--Those
from beyond. In the journey Babel and Ur must have detained. These
cities, with their culture relatively deep and their observatories
equally high, became, in after days, a source of legend, of wonder, of
hatred, perhaps of revelation as well.
At the time the nomads had no cosmogony or theories. The Chaldeans had
both. There was a story of creation, another of antediluvian kings and
of the punishment that overtook them. There was also a story of an
emir of Ur, an old man who had benevolently killed an animal instead
of his son. The story, like the others, must have impressed. In after
years the old man became Abraham, a great person, who had conversed
with the Elohim and whose descendants they were.
The story of creation also impressed. It was enlightening and
comprehensible. The parallel theory of spontaneous generation and the
progressive evolution of the species which the magi entertained, they
probably never heard. Even otherwise it was too complex for minds as
yet untutored. The fables alone appealed. Mentally compressed into
portable shape, carried along, handed down, their origin afterward
forgotten, they became the traditions of a nation, which, eminently
conservative, preserved what it found, among other things the name,
perhaps inharmonious, of Jhvh.[31]
[Footnote 31: Renan: Histoire du peuple d'Israël. Kuenen: De Godsdienst
van Israël.]
That name, since found on an inscription of Sargon, appears to have
been the title of a local god of Sinai, whom the nomads may have
identified with Elohim, particularly, perhaps, since he presided over
thunder, the phenomenon that alarmed them most and which, in
consequence, inspired the greatest awe. That awe they put into the
name, the pronunciation of which, like the origin of their traditions,
they afterward forgot. In subsequent rabbinical writings it became
Shem, the Name; Shemhammephoresh, the Revealed Name, uttered but once
a year, on the day of Atonement, by the high priest in the Holy of
Holies. Mention of it by anyone else was deemed a capital offence,
though, permissibly, it might be rendered El Shaddai, the Almighty.
That term the Septuagint translated into [Greek: ho Kyrios], a Greek
form, in the singular, of the Aramaic plural Adonai, which means
Baalim, or sun lords.
That form the Vulgate gave as Dominus and posterior theology as God.
The latter term, common to all Teutonic tongues, has no known meaning.
It designates that which, to the limited intelligence of man, has
been, and must be, incomprehensible. But the original term Jhvh,
which, in the seventeenth century, was developed into Jehovah, yet
which, the vowels being wholly conjectural, might have been developed
into anything else, clearly appealed to wayfarers to whom Chaldean
science was a book that remained closed until Nebuchadnezzar blew
their descendants back into the miraculous Babel of their youth.
Meanwhile, apart from the name--now generally written Jahveh--apart
too from the fables and the enduring detestation which the colossal
city inspired, probably but one other thing impressed, and that was
the observance of the Sabbath. To a people whose public works were
executed by forced labour, such a day was a necessity. To vagrants it
was not, and, though the custom interested, it was not adopted by them
until their existence from nomad had become fixed.
At this latter period they were in Kanaan. Whether in the interval a
tribe, the Beni-Israel, went down into Egypt, is a subject on which
Continental scholarship has its doubts. The early life of the tribe's
leader and legislator is usually associated with Rameses II., a
pharaoh of the XIX. dynasty. But it has been found that incidents
connected with Moses must apparently have occurred, if they occurred
at all, at a period not earlier than the XXVI. dynasty, which
constitutes a minimum difference of seven hundred years. Yet, in view
of the decalogue, with its curious analogy to the negative confession
in the Book of the Dead; in view also of a practice surgical and
possibly hygienic which, customary among the Egyptians, was adopted by
the Jews; in view, further, of ceremonies and symbols peculiarly
Egyptian that were also absorbed, a sojourn in Goshen there may have
been.
The spoiling of the Egyptians, a roguery on which Israel afterward
prided herself, is a trait perhaps too typical to be lightly
dismissed. On the other hand, if Moses were, which is at least
problematic, and if, in addition to being, he was both the nephew of a
pharaoh and the son-in-law of a priest, as such one to whom, in either
quality, the arcana of the creed would be revealed, it becomes curious
that nowhere in the Pentateuch is there any doctrine of a future life.
Of the entire story, it may be that only the journey into the
Sinaiatic peninsula is true, and of that there probably remained but
tradition, on which history was based much later, by writers who had
only surmises concerning the time and circumstances in which it
occurred.
Yet equally with the roguery, Moses may have been. Seen through modern
criticism his figure fades though his name persists. To that name the
Septuagint tried to give an Egyptian flavour. In their version it is
always [Greek: Môusês], a compound derived from the Egyptian mô,
water, and usês, saved from, or Saved-from-the-water.[32] Per contra,
the Hebrew form Mosheh is, as already indicated, the same as the
Babylonian Masû, a term which means at once leader and littérateur, in
addition to being the cognomen of a god.[33]
[Footnote 32: Josephus: Antiq. ii. 9.]
[Footnote 33: Sayce: The Religion of the Babylonians.]
Moses is said to have led his people out of bondage. He was the writer
to whom the Pentateuch has been ascribed. But he was also a prophet.
In Babylon, the god of prophecy was Nebo. It was on Mount Nebo that
Jahveh commanded the prophet of Israel to die. Moreover, the divinity
that had Masû for cognomen was, as is shown by a Babylonian text, the
primitive god of the sun at Nippur, but the sun at noon, at the period
of its greatest effulgence, at the hour when it wars with whatever
opposes, when it wars as Jahveh did, or as the latter may be assumed
to have warred, since Isaiah represented him as a mighty man, roaring
at his enemies, exciting the fury of the fight, marching personally to
the conflict, and, in the Fourth Roll of the Law (Numbers), there is
mention of a book entitled: The Wars of Jahveh.
Whether, then, Moses is but a composite of things Babylonian fused in
an effort to show a link between a god and a people, is conjectural.
But it is also immaterial. The one instructive fact is that, in a
retrospect, the god, immediately after the exodus, became dictator.
Yet even in the later age, when the retrospect was effected,
conceptions were evidently immature. On one occasion the god met
Moses, tried to kill him, but finally let him go. The picture is that
of a personal struggle.[34] Again, the spectacle of his back which he
vouchsafed to Moses is construable only as an arrière-pensée, unless
it be profound philosophy, unless it be taken that the face of God
represents Providence, to see which would be to behold the future,
whereas the back disclosed the past.
[Footnote 34: Exodus iv. 24-26.]
It is, however, hardly probable that that construction occurred to the
editors of the Pentateuch, who, elsewhere, represented Jahveh as a
butcher, insatiable, jealous, vindictive, treacherous, and vain, one
that consigned all nations other than Israel to ruin and whom a poet
represented trampling people in anger, making them drunk with his
fury, and defiling his raiment with blood.[35]
[Footnote 35: Isaiah lxiii. 1-6.]
But in the period related in Exodus, Jahveh was but the tutelary god
of an itinerant tribe that, in its gipsy lack of territorial
possessions, was not even a nation. Like his people he too was a
vagrant. Like them he had no home. Other gods had temples and altars.
He lacked so much as a shrine. In prefigurement of the Wandering Jew,
each day he moved on. The threats of a land that never smiled were
reflected in his face. The sight of him was death. Certainly he was
terrible.
This conception, corrected by later writers, was otherwise revised. In
the interim Jahveh himself was transformed. He became El, the god;
presently El Shaddai, God Almighty. In the ascension former traits
disappeared. He developed into the deity of emphatic right. Morality,
hitherto absent from religion, entered into it. Israel, who perhaps
had been careless, who, like Solomon, had followed Ishtar, became
austere. Thereafter, Judaism, of which Christianity and Muhammadanism
were the after thoughts, was destined to represent almost the sum
total of the human conscience.
But in Kanaan, during the rude beginnings, though Jahveh was jealous,
Ishtar, known locally as Ashtoreth, allured. Conjointly with Baal, the
indigenous term for Bel, circumadjacently she ruled. The propitiatory
rites of these fair gods were debauchery and infanticide, the
loosening of the girdles of girls, the thrusting of children into
fires. It may be that these ceremonies at first amazed the Hebrews.
But conscientiously they adopted them, less perhaps through zeal than
politeness; because, in this curious epoch, on entering a country it
was thought only civil to serve the divinities that were there, in
accordance with the ritual that pleased them.
With the mere mortal inhabitants, Israel was less ceremonious.
Commanded by Jahveh to kill, extermination was but an act of piety. It
was then, perhaps, that the Wars of Jahveh were sung, a pæan that
must have been resonant with cries, with the death-rattle of kingdoms,
with the shouts of the invading host. From the breast-plates of the
chosen, the terror of Sinai gleamed. Men could not see their faces and
live. The moon was their servant. To aid them the sun stood still.
They encroached, they slaughtered, they quelled. In the conquest a
nation was born. From that bloody cradle the God of Humanity came. But
around and about it was vacancy. In emerging from one solitude the
Jews created another. They have never left it. The desert which they
made destined them to be alone on this earth, as their god was to be
solitary in heaven.
Meanwhile there had been no kings in Israel. With the nation royalty
came. David followed Saul. After him was Solomon. It is presumably at
this period that traditions, orally transmitted from a past relatively
remote, were first put in writing. Previously it is conjectural if the
Jews could write. If they could, it is uncertain whether they made any
use of the ability other than in the possible compilation of toledoth,
such as the Book of the Generations of Adam and the Wars of
Jahveh, works that, later, may have served as data for the
Pentateuch. Even then, the compositions must have been crude, and such
rolls as existed may have been lost when Nebuchadnezzar overturned
Jerusalem.
Presumably, it was not until the post-exilic period that, under the
editorship perhaps of Ezra, the definitive edition of the Torah was
produced. This supposition existing texts support. In Genesis (xxxvii.
31) it is written: "These are the kings of Edom before there reigned
any king over the children of Israel." The passage shows, if it shows
anything, that there were, or had been, kings in Israel at the time
when the passage itself was written. It is, therefore, at least
post-Davidic. In Genesis another passage (xlix. 10) says: "The sceptre
shall not pass from Judah until Shiloh come." Judah was the tribe that
became pre-eminent in Israel after the captivity. The passage is
therefore post-exilic, consequently so is Genesis, and obviously the
rest of the Pentateuch as well. Or, if not obviously, perhaps
demonstrably. In II Esdras xiv. 22-48 it is stated that the writer, a
candle of understanding in his heart, and aided by five swift scribes,
recomposed the Law, which, previously burned, was known to none.
The burning referred to is what may, perhaps, be termed religious
fiction. Barring toledoth and related data that may have been lost,
the Law had almost certainly not existed before, and this post-exilic
romance concerning it was evolved in a laudable effort to show its
Mosaic source. What is true of the Law is, in a measure, true of the
Prophets. None of them anterior to Cyrus, all are later than
Alexander. Spiritually very near to Christianity, chronologically they
are neighbourly too. If not divinely inspired, they at least disclosed
the ideal.
Previously the ideal had not perhaps been very apparent. Apart from
secessions, rebellions, concussions, convulsions that deified Hatred
until Jahveh, in the person of Nebuchadnezzar, talked Assyrian, and
then, in the person of Cyrus, talked Zend, the god of Israel, even in
Israel, was not unique. He had a home, his first, the Temple, built
gorgeously by Solomon, where invisibly, mysteriously, perhaps
terribly, beneath the wings of cherubim that rose from the depths of
the Holy of Holies, he dwelled. But the shrine, however ornate, was
not the only one. There were other altars, other gods; the plentiful
sanctuaries of Ashera, of Moloch and of Baal. On the adjacent hilltops
the phallus stood. In the neighbouring groves the kisses of Ishtar
consumed.
The Lady of Girdles was worshipped there not by men and women only,
but by girls with girls; by others too, not in couples, but singly,
girls who in their solitary devotions had instruments for aid.[36]
Religion, as yet, had but the slightest connection with morality, a
circumstance explicable perhaps by the fact that it resumed the
ethnical conscience of a race. Between the altar of El Shaddai and the
shrines of other gods there were many differences, of which geography
was the least. Jahveh, from a tutelary god, had indeed become the
national divinity of a chosen people. But the Moabites were the chosen
people of Chemos; the Ammonites were the chosen people of Rimmon; the
Babylonians were the chosen people of Bel. The title conferred no
distinction. As a consequence, to differentiate Jahveh from all other
gods, and Israel from all other people, to make the one unique and the
other pontiff and shepherd of the nations of the world, became the
dream of anonymous poets, one that prophets, sometimes equally
anonymous, proclaimed. It was the prophets that reviled the false
gods, denounced the abominations of Ishtar, and purified the Israelite
heart. While nothing discernible, or even imaginable, menaced, however
slightly, the great empires of that day, the prophets were the first
to realize that the Orient was dead. When the Christ announced that
the end of the world was at hand, he but reiterated anterior
predictions that presently were fulfilled. A world did end. That of
antiquity ceased to be.
[Footnote 36: Cf. Deut. xxiii. 17, where 'alâmôth (puellæ) is
rendered in the Sapphist sense. Ezekiel xvi. 17. Fecisti tibi
imagines masculinas.]
It was the prophets that foretold it. Gloomy, fanatic, implacable and,
it may be, mad, yet inspired at least by genius which itself, while
madness, is a madness wholly divine, they heralded the future, they
established the past. Abraham they drew from allegory, Moses from
myth. They made them live, and so immortally that one survives in
Islam, the other in words that are a law of grace for all.
If, in visions possibly ecstatic, they beheld heights that lost
themselves in immensity, and saw there an ineffable name seared by
forked flames on a tablet of stone; if that spectacle and the
theophany of it were but poetry, the decalogue is a fact, one so solid
that though ages have gone, though empires have crumbled, though the
customs of man have altered, though the sky itself have changed, still
is obeyed the commandment: Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
From Chemos in Moab, from Rimmon among the Ammonites, no such edict
had come. It felled them. Amon-Râ it tore from the celestial Nile, and
Bel-Marduk from the Silver Sky. The Refaïm hid them in shadows as
surely as they buried there the high and potent lords of Greece and
Rome. These interments, completed by others, the prophets began. For
it was they who, in addition to the command, revealed the commandant,
creator of whatever is: the Being Absolute that abhorred evil, loved
righteousness, punished the transgressor and rewarded the just; El
Shaddai, then really Lord of Hosts.
It may be that already in Israel there had been some prescience of
this. But it lacked the authority of inspired text. The omission was
one that only seers could remedy. It was presumably in these
circumstances that an agreement was imagined which, construed as a
condition of a covenant, assumed to have been made with Abraham, was
further assumed to have been renewed to Moses. The resulting poetry
was enveloped in a romance of which Continental scholarship has
discovered two versions, woven together, perhaps by Ezra, into a
single tale.
"In the beginning Elohim created the heaven and earth." That abrupt
declaration, presented originally in but one of the versions, had
already been pronounced of Indra and also of Ormuzd. The Hebraic
announcement alone prevailed. It emptied the firmament of its
monsters, dislodged the gods from the skies, and enthroned there a
deity at first multiple but subsequently unique. Afterward seraphs and
saints might replace the evaporated imaginings of other creeds; Satan
might create a world of his own and people it with the damned;
theology might evolve from elder faiths a newer trinity and set it
like a diadem in space; angels and archangels might refill the
devastated heavens of the past; none the less, in the light of that
austere pronouncement, for a moment Israel dwelled in contemplation of
the Ideal.
At the time it is probable that the story of the love of the sons of
Jahveh for the daughters of men, together with the pastel of Eden as
it stands to-day, were not contained in existing accounts of that
ideal. These legends, which regarded as legends are obviously false,
but which, construed as allegories, may be profoundly true, were
probably not diffused until after the captivity, when Israel was not
more subtle, that is not possible, but, by reason of her contact with
Persia, more wise.
The origin of evil these myths related but did not explain. Since
then, from no church has there come an adequate explanation of the
malediction under which man is supposed to labour because of the
natural propensities of beings that never were. That explanation these
myths, which orthodoxy has gravely, though sometimes reluctantly,
accepted, both provide and conceal. They date possibly from the
Ormuzdian revelation: "In the beginning was the living Word."
John, or more exactly his homonym, repeated the pronouncement, adding:
"The word was made flesh." But, save for a mention of the glory which
he had before the world was, he omitted to further follow the thought
of Ormuzd, who, in describing paradise to Zarathrustra, likened it, in
every way, to heaven. There the first beings were, exempt from
physical necessities, pure intelligences, naked as the compilers of
Genesis translated, naked and unashamed, but naked and unashamed
because incorporeal, unincarnate and clothed in light, a vestment
which they exchanged for a garment of flesh, coats of skin as it is in
Genesis, when, descended on earth, their intelligence, previously
luminous, swooned in the senses of man.
In Egypt, the harper going out from Amenti sang: "Life is death in a
land of darkness, death is life in a land of light." There perhaps is
the origin of evil. There too perhaps is its cure. But the view
accepted there too is pre-existence and persistence, a doctrine
blasphemous to the Jew as it was to the Assyrian, to whom the gods
alone were immortal, and to whom, in consequence, immortal beings
would be gods. In the creed of both, man was essentially evanescent.
To the Hebrew, he lived a few, brief days and then went down into
silence, where no remembrance is. There, gathered among the Refaïm to
his fathers, he remained forever, unheeded by God.
The conception, passably rationalistic and not impossibly correct,
veiled the beautiful allegory that was latent in the Eden myth. It had
the further defect, or the additional advantage, of eliminating any
theory of future punishment and reward. In lieu of anything of the
kind, there was a doctrine that evil, in producing evil, automatically
punished itself. The doctrine is incontrovertible. But, for corollary,
went the fallacy that virtue is its own reward. Against that idea Job
protested so energetically that mediæval monks were afraid to read
what he wrote. Yet it was perhaps in demonstration of the real
significance of the allegory that a spiritualistic doctrine--always an
impiety to the orthodox--was insinuated by the Pharisees and instilled
by the Christ.
The basis of it rested perhaps partially in the idealism of the
prophets. The clamour of their voices awoke the dead. It transformed
the skies. It transfigured Jahveh. It divested him of attributes that
were human. It outlined others that were divine. It awoke not merely
the dead, but the consciousness that a god that had a proper name
could not be the true one. Thereafter mention of it was avoided. The
vowels were dropped. It became unpronounceable, therefore
incommunicable. For it was substituted the term vaguer, and therefore
more exact, of Lord, one in whose service were fulfilled the words of
Isaiah: "I am the first and I am the last, and beside me there is no
God."
In the marvel of that miraculous realization were altitudes hitherto
undreamed, peaks from whose summits there was discernible but the
valleys beneath, and another height on which stood the Son of man. Yet
marvellous though the realization was, instead of diminishing, it
increased. It did not pass. It was not forgot. Ceaselessly it
augmented.
In the Scriptures there are many marvels. That perhaps is the
greatest. Amon, originally an obscure provincial god of Thebes, became
the supreme divinity of Egypt. Bel, originally a local god of Nippur,
became in Babylon Lord of Hosts. But Jahveh, originally the tutelary
god of squalid nomads, became the Deity of Christendom. The fact is
one that any scholarship must admit. It is the indisputable miracle of
the Bible.
VI
ZEUS
In Judea, when Jahveh was addressed, he answered, if at all, with a
thunderclap. Since then he has ceased to reply. Zeus was more
complaisant. One might enter with him into the intimacy of the
infinite. The father of the Graces, the Muses, the Hours, it was
natural that he should be debonair. But he had other children. Among
them were Litai, the Prayers. In the Vedas, where Zeus was born, the
Prayers upheld the skies. Lame and less lofty in Greece, they could
but listen and intercede.
The detail is taken from Homer. In his Ionian Pentateuch is the
statement that beggars are sent by Zeus, that whoever stretches a hand
is respectable in his eyes, that the mendicant who is repulsed may
perhaps be a god[37]--suggestions which, afterward, were superiorly
resumed in the dictum: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of
these my brethren, ye have done it unto me."
[Footnote 37: Odyssey, xviii. 485, v. 447, xiv. 56.]
The Litai were not alone in their offices. There were the oracles of
Delphi, of Trophonios and of Mopsos, where one might converse with any
divinity, even with Pan, who was a very great god. But Olympos was
neighbourly. It was charming too. There was unending spring there,
eternal youth, immortal beauty, the harmonies of divine honey-moons,
the ideal in a golden dream; a stretch of crystal parapets, from
which, leaning and laughing, radiant goddesses and resplendent gods
looked down, and to whom a people, adolescent still, looked up.
In that morning of delight fear was absent, mystery was replaced by
joy. The pageantry of the hours may have been too near to nature to
know of shame, it was yet too close to the divine to know of hate.
Man, then, for the first time, loved what he worshipped and worshipped
what he loved. His brilliant and musical Bible moved his heart without
tormenting it. It conducted but did not constrain. It taught him that
in death all are equal and that in life the noble-minded are serene.
In the Genesis of this Bible there is an account of a golden age and
of a paradise into which evil was introduced by woman. The account is
Hesiod's, to whom the Orient had furnished the details. It may be that
both erred. If ever there were a golden age it must have been in those
days when heaven was on earth and, mingling familiarly with men, were
processions of gods, gods of love, of light, of liberty, thousands of
them, not one of whom had ever heard an atheist's voice. Related to
humanity, of the same blood, sons of the same Aryan mother, they
differed from men only in that the latter died because they were real,
while they were deathless because ideal.
The ideal was too fair. Presently Pallas became the soul of Athens.
But meanwhile from the East there strayed swarms of enigmatic faces;
the harlot handmaids of her Celestial Highness Ishtar, Princess of
Heaven; the mutilated priests of Tammuz her lover; dual conceptions
that resulted in Aphrodite Pandemos, the postures of Priapos, the leer
of the Lampsacene, and, with them, forms of worship comparable, in the
circumadjacent beauty, to latrinæ in a garden, ignoble shapes that
violated the candour of maidens' eyes, but with which Greece became so
accustomed that on them moral aphorisms were engraved. "In the mind of
Hellas, these things," Renan, with his usual unctuousness, declared,
"awoke but pious thoughts."
Pious at heart Hellas was. Even art, which now is wholly profane, with
her was wholly sacred. The sanctity was due to its perfection. The
perfection was such that imbeciles who fancy that it has been or could
be surpassed show merely that they know nothing about it. At Athens,
where Pheidias created a palpable Olympos, Pallas stood colossally, a
torch in her hand, a lance at her shoulder, a shield at her side, a
plastron of gold on her immaculate breast, a golden robe about her
ivory form, and on her immortal brow a crown of gold, beneath which,
sapphire eyes, that saw and foresaw, glittered. To-day the place where
the marvellous creation stood is vacant. With the gorgeous host Pallas
has departed. But the torch she held still burns. From the emptiness
of her virginal arms, that never were filled, proceeds all
civilization.
Adjacently at Eleusis was Demeter. Pallas was the soul of Greece.
Eleusis was the Jerusalem, Demeter the Madonna.
Demeter--the earth, the universal mother--had, in a mystic hymen with
her brother Zeus, conceived Persephone. The latter, when young and a
maiden, beckoned perhaps by Eros, wandered from Olympos and was
gathering flowers when Pluto, borne by black horses, erupted, raped
her, and tore her away. The cries of the indignant Demeter sterilized
the earth. To assuage her, Zeus undertook to have Persephone
recovered, provided that in Hades, of which Pluto was lord, she had
eaten nothing. But the girl had--a pomegranate grain. It was the
irrevocable. Demeter yielded, as the high gods had to yield, to what
was higher than they, to Destiny. Meanwhile, in the shadows below,
Persephone was transfigured.
  Thou art more than the day or the morrow, the seasons that laugh and
      that weep;
  For these give joy and sorrow: but thou, Proserpina, sleep....
  O daughter of earth, of my mother, her crown and blossom of birth,
  I am also, I also, thy brother; I go as I came unto earth.
  In the night where thine eyes are as moons are in heaven, the night
      where thou art,
  Where the silence is more than all tunes, where sleep overflows from
      the heart, ...
  And the murmur of spirits that sleep in the shadow of gods from afar
  Grows dim in thine ears and deep as the deep dim soul of a star.
  In the sweet low light of thy face, under heavens untrod by the sun,
  Let my soul with their souls find place and forget what was done or
      undone.
  Thou art more than the gods that number the days of our temporal breath
  For these give labour and slumber; but thou, Proserpina, death.
Like Hesiod, Swinburne erred, though perhaps intentionally, as poets
should, for the greater glory of the Muses. Persephone brought not
death but life. The aisles of despair she filled with hope.
Transfigured herself, Pluto she transformed. She changed what had been
hell into what was to be purgatory. It was not yet Elysium, but it was
no longer Hades. Plato said that those who were in her world had no
wish at all for this.
It is for that reason that Demeter is the Madonna of Greece, as her
ethereal daughter was the saviour. The myth of it all, brought by
Pythagoras from Egypt is very old. Known in Memphis, it was known too
in Babylon, perhaps before Memphis was. But the legend of Isis and
that of Ishtar--both of whom descended into hell--lack the transparent
charm which this idyl unfolds and of which the significance was
revealed only to initiate in epiphanies at Eleusis.
Before these sacraments Greece stood, a finger to her lips. Yet the
whispers from them that have reached us, while furtive perhaps, are
clear. They furnished the poets with notes that are resonant still.
They lifted the drama to heights that astound. Even in the fancy balls
of Aristophanes, where men were ribald and the gods were mocked,
suddenly, in the midst of the orgy, laughter ceased, obscenities were
hushed. Afar a hymn resounded. It was the chorus of the Initiate going
measuredly by.
The original mysteries were Hermetic. Enterable only after a prolonged
novitiate, the adept then beheld an unfolding of the theosophy of the
soul. In visions, possibly ecstatic, he saw the series of its
incarnations, the seven cycles through which it passed, the Ship of a
Million Years on which the migrations are effected and on which, at
last, from the Valley of the Shadow of Death, it sails to its primal
home.
That home was colour, its sustenance light. There, in ethereal
evolutions, its incarnations began. At first unsubstantial and wholly
ineffable, these turned for it every object into beauty, every sound
into joy. Without needs, from beatitude to beatitude blissfully it
floated. But, subjected to the double attraction of matter and of sin,
the initiate saw the memories and attributes of its spirituality fade.
He saw it flutter, and fluttering sink. He saw that in sinking it
enveloped itself in garments that grew heavier at each descent.
Through the denser clothing he saw the desires of the flesh pulsate.
He saw them force it lower, still lower, until, fallen into its
earthly tenement, it swooned in the senses of man. From the chains of
that prison he learned that the soul's one escape was in a recovery of
the memory of what it had been when it was other than what it had
become.
That memory the mysteries provided. Those of Eleusis differed from the
Egyptian only in detail. At Eleusis, in lieu of visions, there were
tableaux. Persephone, beckoned by desire, straying then from Olympos,
afterward fainting in the arms of Pluto, but subsequently, while
preparing her own reascension, saving and embellishing all that
approach, was the symbol, in an Hellenic setting, of the fall and
redemption of man.
The human tragedy thus portrayed was the luminous counterpart of the
dark dramas that Athens beheld. There, in the theatre--which itself
was a church with the stage for pulpit--man, blinded by passions, the
Fates pursued and Destiny felled.
The sombre spectacle was inexplicable. At Eleusis was enlightenment.
"Eskato Bebeloï"--Out from here, the profane--the heralds shouted as
the mysteries began. "Konx ompax"--Go in peace--they called when the
epiphanies were completed.
In peace the initiate went, serenely, it is said, ever after. From
them the load of ignorance was lifted. But what their impressions were
is unrecorded. They were bound to secrecy. No one could learn what
occurred without being initiated, or without dying. For death too is
initiation.
The mysteries were schools of immortality. They plentifully taught
many a lesson that Christianity afterward instilled. But their drapery
was perhaps over ornate. Truth does not need any. Truth always should
be charming. Yet always it should be naked as well. About it the
mysteries hung a raiment that was beautiful, but of which the rich
embroideries obscured. The mysteries could not have been more
fascinating, that is not possible, but, the myths removed, in simple
nudity they would have been more clear. Doubtless it was for that very
reason, in order that they might not be transparent, that the myths
were employed. It is for that very reason, perhaps, that Christianity
also adopted a few. Yet at least from cant they were free. Among the
multiple divinities of Greece, hypocrisy was the unknown god.
Consideration of the others is, to-day, usually effected through the
pages of Ovid. One might as well study Christianity in the works of
Voltaire. Christianity's brightest days were in the dark ages. The
splendid glamour of them that persists is due to many causes, among
which, in minor degree, may be the compelling glare of Greek genius.
That glare, veiled in the mysteries, philosophy reflects.
Philosophy is but the love of wisdom. It began with Socrates. He had
no belief in the gods. The man who has none may be very religious. But
though Socrates did not believe in the gods he did not deny them. He
did what perhaps was worse. He ignored their perfectly poetic
existence. He was put to death for it, though only at the conclusion
of a long promenade during which he delivered Athenian youths of their
intelligence. Facility in the operation may have been inherited.
Socrates was the son of a midwife. His own progeny consisted in a
complete transfiguration of Athenian thought. He told of an
Intelligence, supreme, ethical, just, seeing all, hearing all,
governing all; a creator made not after the image of man but of the
soul, and visible only in the conscience. It was for that he died.
There was no such god on Olympos.
There was an additional indictment. Socrates was accused of perverting
the jeunesse dorée. At a period when, everywhere, save only in
Israel, the abnormal was usual, Socrates was almost insultingly
chaste. The perversion of which he was accused was not of that order.
It was that of inciting lads to disobey their parents when the latter
opposed what he taught.
"I am come to set a man against his father," it is written in
Matthew. The mission of Socrates was the same. Because of it he
died. He was the first martyr. But his death was overwhelming in its
simplicity. Even in fairyland there has been nothing more calm. By way
of preparation he said to his judges: "Were you to offer to acquit me
on condition that I no longer profess what I believe, I would answer;
'Athenians, I honour and I love you, but a god has commanded me and
that god I will obey, rather than you.'"
In the speech was irony, with which Athens was familiar. But it also
displayed a conception, wholly new, that of maintaining at any cost
the truth. The novelty must have charmed. When Peter and the apostles
were arraigned before the Sanhedrin, their defence consisted in the
very words that Socrates had used: "We should obey God rather than
man."[38]
[Footnote 38: Acts v. 29.]
Socrates wrote nothing. The Buddha did not either. Neither did the
Christ. These had their evangelists. Socrates had also disciples who,
as vehicle for his ideas, employed the nightingale tongue of beauty
into which the Law and the Prophets were translated by the Septuagint
and into which the Gospels were put.
It would be irreverent to suggest that the latter are in any way
indebted to Socratic inspiration. It would be irrelevant as well. For,
while the Intelligence that Socrates preached differed as much from
the volage and voluptuous Zeus as the God of Christendom differs from
the Jahveh of Job, yet, in a divergence so wide, an idealist, very
poor except in ideas; a teacher killed by those who knew not what they
did; a philosopher that drained the cup without even asking that it
pass from him; a mere reformer, though dangerous perhaps as every
reformer worth the name must be; but, otherwise, a mere man like any
other, only a little better, could obviously have had no share. For
reasons not minor but major, Plato could have had none either.
It is related that a Roman invader sank back, stricken with
deisidaimonia--the awe that the gods inspired--at the sight of the
Pheidian Zeus. It is with a wonder not cognate certainly, yet in a
measure relative, that one considers what Socrates must have been if
millennia have gone without producing one mind approaching that of his
spiritual heir. It was uranian; but not disassociated from human
things.
Plato, like his master, was but a man in whom the ideal was intuitive,
perhaps the infernal also. In the gardens of the Academe and along the
banks of the Ilissus, he announced a Last Judgment. The announcement,
contained in the Phædo, had for supplement a picture that may have
been Persian, of the righteous ascending to heaven and the wicked
descending to hell. In the Laws, the picture was annotated with a
statement to the effect that whatever a man may do, there is an eye
that sees him, a memory that registers and retains. In the Republic
he declared that afflictions are blessings in disguise. But his
"Republic," a utopian commonwealth, was not, he said, of this world,
adding in the Phædo, that few are chosen though many are called.
The mystery of the catholicism of the Incas, reported back to the Holy
Office, was there defined as an artifice of the devil. With finer
circumspection, Christian Fathers attributed the denser mystery of
Greek philosophy to the inspiration of God.
Certainly it is ample. As exemplified by Plato it has, though, its
limitations. There is no charity in it. Plato preached humility, but
there is none in his sermons. His thought is a winged thing, as the
thought of a poet ever should be. But in the expression of it he seems
smiling, disdainful, indifferent as a statue to the poverties of the
heart. That too, perhaps, is as it should be. The high muse wears a
radiant peplum. Anxiety is banished from the minds that she haunts.
Then, also, if, in the nectar of Plato's speech, compassion is not an
ingredient, it may be because, in his violet-crowned city, it was
strewn open-handed through the beautiful streets. There, public
malediction was visited on anyone that omitted to guide a stranger on
his way.
Israel was too strictly monotheistic to raise an altar to Pity, the
rest of antiquity too cruel. In Athens there was one. In addition
there were missions for the needy, asylums for the infirm. If
anywhere, at that period, human sympathy existed, it was in Greece.
The aristocratic silence of Plato may have been due to that fact. He
would not talk of the obvious, though he did of the vile. In one of
his books the then common and abnormal conception of sexuality was, if
not authorized, at least condoned. It is conjectural, however, whether
the conception was more monstrous than that which subsequent mysticity
evolved.
Said Ruysbroeck: "The mystic carries her soul in her hand and gives it
to whomsoever she wishes." Said St. Francis of Sales: "The soul draws
to itself motives of love and delectates in them." What the gift and
what the delectation were, other saints have described.
Marie de la Croix asserted that in the arms of the celestial Spouse
she swam in an ocean of delight. Concerning that Spouse, Marie
Alacoque added: "Like the most passionate of lovers he made me
understand that I should taste what is sweetest in the suavity of
caresses, and indeed, so poignant were they, that I swooned." The
ravishments which St. Theresa experienced she expressed in terms of
abandoned precision. Mme. Guyon wrote so carnally of the divine that
Bossuet exclaimed; "Seigneur, if I dared, I would pray that a seraph
with a flaming sword might come and purify my lips sullied by this
recital."[39]
[Footnote 39: Relation sur le Quiétisme.]
Augustin pleasantly remarked that we are all born for hell. One need
not agree with him. In the presence of the possibly monstrous and the
impossibly blasphemous, there is always a recourse. It is to turn
away, though it be to Zeus, a belief in whom, however stupid, is
ennobling beside the turpitudes that Christian mysticism produced.
At Athens, meanwhile, the religion of State persisted. So also did
philosophy. When, occasionally, the two met, the latter bowed. That
was sufficient. Religion exacted respect, not belief. It was not a
faith, it was a law, one that for its majesty was admired and for its
poetry was beloved. In the deification of whatever is exquisite it was
but an artistic cult. The real Olympos was the Pantheon. The other was
fading away. Deeper and deeper it was sinking back into the golden
dream from which it had sprung. Further and further the crystal
parapets were retreating. Dimmer and more dim the gorgeous host
became. In words of perfect piety Epicurus pictured them in the
felicity of the ideal. There, they had no heed of man, no desire for
worship, no wish for prayer. It was unnecessary even to think of them.
Decorously, with every homage, they were being deposed.
But if Epicurus was decorous, Evemerus was devout. It was his
endeavour, he said, not to undermine but to fortify. The gods he
described as philanthropists whom a grateful world had deified. Zeus
had waged a sacrilegious war against his father. Aphrodite was a
harlot and a procuress. The others were equally commendable. Once they
had all lived. Since then all had died. Evemerus had seen their tombs.
One should not believe him. Their parapets are dimmer, perhaps, but
from them still they lean and laugh. They are immortal as the
hexameters in which their loves unfold. Yet, oddly enough, presently
the oracle of Delphi strangled. In his cavern Trophonios was gagged.
The voice of Mopsos withered.
That is nothing. On the Ionian, the captain of a ship heard some one
calling loudly at him from the sea. The passengers, who were at table,
looked out astounded. Again the loud voice called: "Captain, when you
reach shore announce that the great god Pan is dead."[40]
[Footnote 40: Plutarch: de Oracul. defect. 14.]
It may be that it was true. It may be that after Pan the others
departed. When Paul reached Athens he found a denuded Pantheon, a
vacant Olympos, skies more empty still.
VII
JUPITER
The name of the national deity of Israel is unpronounceable. The name
of the national divinity of Rome is unknown. To all but the
hierophants it was a secret. For uttering it a senator was put to
death. But Tullius Hostilius erected temples to Fear and to Pallor. It
may have been Fright. The conjecture is supported by the fact that, as
was usual, Rome had any number of deified epithets, as she had also a
quantity of little bits of gods. These latter greatly amused the
Christian Fathers. Among them was Alemona, who, in homely English, was
Wet-nurse.
Tertullian, perhaps naïvely, remarked: "Superstition has invented
these deities for whom we have substituted angels." In addition to the
diva mater Alemona was the divus pater Vaticanus, the holy father
Vatican, who assisted at a child's first cry. There was the equally
holy father Fabulin, who attended him in his earliest efforts at
speech. Neither of them had anything else to do.
Pavor had. At thunder, at lightning, at a meteor, at moisture on a
wall, at no matter what, at silence even, the descendants of a
she-wolf's nursling quailed. They lived in a panic. In panic the gods
were born. It is but natural, perhaps, that Fright should have been
held supreme. The other gods, mainly divinities of prey and of havoc,
were lustreless as the imaginations that conceived them. Prosaic,
unimaged, without poetry or myth, they dully persisted until pedlars
appeared with Hellenic legends and wares. To their tales Rome
listened. Then eidolons of the Olympians became naturalized there.
Zeus was transformed into Jupiter, Aphrodite into Venus, Pallas into
Minerva, Demeter into Ceres, and all of them--and with them all the
others--into an irritable police. The Greek gods enchanted, those of
Rome alarmed. Plutarch said that they were indignant if one presumed
to so much as sneeze.
Worship, consequently, was a necessary precaution, an insurance
against divine risks, a matter of business in which the devout
bargained with the divine. Ovid represented Numa trying to elude the
exigencies of Jove. The latter had demanded the sacrifice of a head.
"You shall have a cabbage," said the king. "I mean something human."
"Some hairs then." "No, I want something alive." "We will give you a
pretty little fish." Jupiter laughed and yielded. That was much later,
after Lucretius, in putting Epicurus into verse, had declared religion
to be the mother of sin. By that time Fear and Pallor had struck
terror into the very marrow of barbarian bones. Fright was a god more
serviceable than Zeus. With him Rome conquered the world. Yet in the
conquest Fright became Might and the latter an effulgence of Jove's.
Jove was magnificent. In the Capitol he throned so augustly that we
swear by him still. Like Rome he is immortal. But Pavor, that had
faded into him, was never invoked. The reason was not sacerdotal, it
was political. Rome never imposed her gods on the quelled. With
superior tact she lured their gods from them. At any siege, that was
her first device. To it she believed her victories were due. It was to
avoid possible reprisals and to remain invincible, that her own
national divinity she so carefully concealed that the name still is a
secret. With the gods, Rome gathered the creeds of the world, set them
like fountains among her hills, and drank of their sacred waters. Her
early deity is unknown. But the secret of her eternity is in the
religions that she absorbed. It was these that made her immortal.
To that immortality the obscure god of an obscure people contributed
largely, perhaps, but perhaps, too, not uniquely. Jahveh might have
remained unperceived behind the veil of the sanctuary had not his
altar been illuminated by lights from other shrines. In the early days
of the empire, Rome was fully aware of the glamour of Amon, of the
star of Ormuzd, Brahm's cerulean lotos and the rainbow heights of
Bel-Marduk. But in the splendour of Jove all these were opaque.
Jupiter, always imposing, was grandiose then. His thoughts were vast
as the sky. In a direct revelation to Vergil he said of his chosen
people: "I have set no limits to their conquest or its duration. The
empire I have given them shall be without end."[41] Hebrew prophets had
spoken similarly. Vergil must have been more truly inspired. The Roman
empire, nominally holy, figuratively still exists. Yet fulfilment of
the prophecy is due perhaps less to the God of the Gentiles than to
the God of the Jews. Though perhaps also it may be permissible to
discern in the latter a transfiguration of Jove, who originally Zeus,
and primarily not Hellenic but Hindu, ultimately became supreme. After
the terrific struggle which resulted in that final metamorphosis,
Jerusalem, disinherited, saw Rome the spiritual capital of the globe.
[Footnote 41: Æneid i. 278.]
Jerusalem was not a home of logic. Rome was the city of law. That law,
cold, inflexible, passionless as a sword and quite as effective, Rome
brandished at philosophy. It is said that the intellectual gymnastics
of Greece were displeasing to her traditions. It is more probable that
augurs had foreseen or oracles had foretold that philosophy would
divest her of the sword, and with it of her sceptre and her might.
Ideas cannot be decapitated. Only ridicule can demolish them.
Philosophy, mistress of irony, resisted while nations fell. It was
philosophy that first undermined established creeds and then led to
the pursuit of new ones. Yet it may be that a contributing cause was a
curious theory that the world was to end. Foretold in the Brahmanas,
in the Avesta and in the Eddas, probably it was in the Sibylline
Books. If not, the subsequent Church may have so assumed.
  Dies iræ, dies illa,
  Solvet sæclum in favilla,
  Teste David cum Sibylla.
Not alone David and the Sibyl but Etruscan seers had seen in the skies
that the tenth and last astronomical cycle had begun.[42] Plutarch, in
his life of Sylla, testified to the general belief in an approaching
cataclysm. Lucretius announced that at any moment it might occur.[43]
That was in the latter days of the republic. In the early days of the
empire the theory persisting may have induced the hope of a saviour.
Suetonius said that nature in her parturitions was elaborating a
king.[44] Afterward he added that such was Asia's archaic belief.[45]
Recent discoveries have verified the assertion. In the Akkadian Epic
of Dibbara a messiah was foretold.[46] That epic, anterior to a cognate
Egyptian prophecy,[47] anterior also to the Sibylline Books, was
anterior too to the Hebrew prophets and necessarily to those of Rome.
[Footnote 42: Censorinus: De die nat. 17.]
[Footnote 43: De rerum nat., v. 105.]
[Footnote 44: In Augusto, 74.]
[Footnote 45: In Vesp. 4.]
[Footnote 46: Jastrow: op. cit.]
[Footnote 47: See back, Chapter III.]
Among these was Vergil. In the fourth Eclogue he beheld an age of
gold, preceded by the advent on earth of a son of Jove, under whose
auspices the last traces of sin and sorrow were to disappear and a new
race descend from heaven. "The serpent shall die," he declared,
adding: "The time is at hand."
The Eclogue was written 40 B.C., during the consulate of Pallio, whom
the poet wished perhaps to flatter. Then presently Ovid sang the
deathless soul and Tibullus gave rendezvous hereafter. The atmosphere
dripped with wonders. The air became charged with the miraculous. At
stated intervals the doors of temples opened of themselves. Statues
perspired visibly. There was a book that explained the mechanism of
these marvels. It interested nobody. Prodigies were matters of course.
The people had a heaven, also a hell, both of them Greek, a purgatory
that may have been Asiatic, and, pending the advent of the son of
Jove, in Mithra they could have had a redeemer. Had it been desired,
Buddhism could have supplied gospels, India the trinity, Persia the
resurrection, Egypt the life. From Iran could have been obtained an
Intelligence, sovereign, unimaged, and just. That was unnecessary.
Long since Socrates had displayed it. In addition, Epicurus had told
of an ascension of heavens, skies beyond the sky, worlds without
number, the many mansions of a later faith.
Meanwhile, austerity was an appanage of the stoics, in whose faultless
code the dominant note was contempt for whatever is base, respect for
all that is noble. A doctrine of great beauty, purely Greek, as was
everything else in Rome that was beautiful, its heights were too lofty
for the vulgar. It appealed only to the lettered, that is to the few,
to the infrequent disciples of Zeno and of Cicero, his prophet, who,
Erasmus said, was inspired by God.
It may be that Cicero inspired a few of God's preachers. The latter
were not yet in Rome. Christ had not come. At that period, unique in
history, man alone existed. The temples were thronged, but the skies
were bare. Cicero knew that. Elysium and Hades were as chimerical to
him as the Epicurean heavens. "People," he said, "talk of these places
as though they had been there." But that which was superstition to him
he regarded as beneficial for others, who had to have something and
who got it, in temples where a sin was a prayer.
There was once a play of which there has survived but the title: The
Last Will and Testament of Defunct Jupiter. It appeared in the days
of Diocletian, but it might have appealed when Cicero taught. Faith
then had fainted. Fright had ceased to build. Worship remained, but
religion had gone. The gods themselves were departing. The epoch
itself was apoplectic. The tramp of legions was continuous. Not alone
the skies but the world was in a ferment. It was not until a diadem,
falling from Cleopatra's golden bed, rolled to the feet of Augustus,
that the gods were stayed and faith revived.
In the interim, prisoners had been deported from Judea. At first they
were slaves. Subsequently manumitted, they formed a colony that in the
high-viced city resembled Esther in the seraglio of Ahasuerus. Rome,
amateur of cults, always curious of foreign faiths, might have been
interested in Judaism. It had many analogies with local beliefs. Its
adherents awaited, as Rome did, a messiah. They awaited too a golden
age. For those who were weary of philosophy, they had a religion in
which there was none. For those to whom the marvellous appealed, they
had a history in which miracles were a string of pearls. For those who
were sceptic concerning the post-mortem, they offered blankness. In
addition, their god, the enemy of all others, was adapted to an empire
that recognized no sovereignty but its own. Readily might Rome have
become Hebrew. But then, with equal ease, she might have become
Egyptian.
For those who were perhaps afraid of going to hell and yet may have
been equally afraid of not going anywhere, Egypt held passports to a
land of light. Then too, the gods of Egypt were friendly and
accessible. They mingled familiarly with those of Rome, complaisantly
with the deified Cæsars, as already they had with the pharaohs, a
condescension, parenthetically, that did not protect them from
Tiberius, who, for reasons with which religion had nothing whatever to
do, persecuted the Egyptians, as he persecuted also the Jews. None the
