somewhere, after he left the hospital, and got well. 
Why he should turn up and settle here — He 
says it 's because we saved his life. He isn't the 
sort of man you ask questions of. His leg didn't 
set very well. Haven't you noticed how lame 
he is ? " 
" I have never noticed anything about him," 
answered Mrs. Dane, wearily. " I have never seen 
him that I know of — unless — if there is 
anything in this dramatic story — that one night 
when Clyde saved him. . . . Has Clyde seen him?" 
she demanded suddenly. 
" I don't think so. No, I 'm pretty sure not. . . . 
Mrs. Dane ? " said Nannie, abruptly. " What do 
you suppose I 'm going on this way for about the 
new doctor ? You know I don't gossip, don't you ? 
I 've had enough of that, haven't I ? Has it 
occurred to you to wonder what I am talking about 
Dr. Royal for?" 
Carolyn shook her head indifferently. She found 
Nannie, for once, a little tiresome that day. It was 
a July day, and the two young women were sitting 
on the cottage piazza screened from the street 
by drapery of nasturtiums. Mrs. Dane was darn- 
ing little blue stockings for Joyce, and the boy 
himself was playing with the collie on the grass. 
"Geetupl Geetup! Scat! Shoo! Scat! Why 
don't you geet up ? " screamed Joyce, shrilly. He 
flung a handful of pebbles at a passing horse, and 
startled the creature, who shied. Then Clyde 
barked at the horse and leaped upon it, biting at 
its nose. 
" There he goes," observed Nannie. She pushed 
aside the green and yellow, and looked out. " That 
is Dr. Royal. There he goes this minute." 
" I am sure I never saw him before," replied Mrs. 
Dane, laying down the little stocking to glance. 
 
" That man — on the rocks — but then I shouldn't 
know him, either. All I saw was — let us forget 
it. It was a dreadful sight ! " 
"Shoo! Shoo !"screamed the boy. "Scat! Shoo! 
Scat! Geet up! Geet on! Nobody's sick in this 
house ! Nobody wants you here ! " 
" The truth is," observed Nannie, boldly, " I want 
you to do something. I want you to do something 
to help us — Father and me — and Dr. Royal. I 
want you to rent him ... I mean Dr. Dane's — 
that is, your office." 
" Be so good as to explain yourself." Mrs. Dane 
brushed the little blue stocking off her lap with a 
touch of hauteur, at which the village girl winced 
sensitively, but she persisted. 
" Old John Tobey's is no place for him ; he is 
very uncomfortable there, and Father wants him 
in the house. He has set his heart on it, the way 
he did with Doctor — before. He says he wants a 
doctor handy. The trouble is, we have rented the 
old office to the new dentist. We have promised 
it for a year, and there we are. We can do all the 
rest of it. We can take Dr. Royal for a mealer. 
He can have that bedroom off of Father's. We 
haven't an inch of office room for him under our 
roof, anyhow you can fix it. I thought perhaps 
to help Father — to please me — and then, Mrs. 
Dane," added Nannie, timidly, "he could pay 
 
you something, the market value of the room. I 
thought perhaps — " 
" I thank you, Nannie," said Carolyn, more gently. 
" I will consider it. I will ask Mr. Hart." 
" If you did," retorted Nannie, "he wouldn't let 
you do it." 
" But if I should agree to do it," argued Mrs. 
Dane, " if I should agree to do it first? Come again 
to-morrow, Nannie. I will think it over. Tell your 
father I will consider it very seriously." 
That evening she took her little boy and duti- 
fully went to her cousin's house. She made the 
short cut across the lawns of her old home (now 
occupied by summer strangers), and saw from a 
distance that Mr. Hart was walking towards her. 
The three met midway of the iron bridge — Caro- 
lyn clinging to the child, with her arm around 
him. 
" He is afraid of it," she pleaded, looking down 
into the chasm. " I used to love it when I was his 
age. But Joyce is not like me." 
Sterling Hart lifted the little fellow and carried 
him over. The preacher had his happiest look. 
His face was still and shining. 
" You honor me, Cousin Carolyn," he said. " I 
was on my way to you. But this is better. This 
pleases me. Will you go into the house ? Or is 
the piazza cooler ? " 
 
" I don't care," said Carolyn, uncomfortably. " I 
have only come to tell you something. It will not 
take long." 
They passed into the large, lonely house. He 
led her into his study among his books. 
" Cousin Sterling," began Cara, without looking 
at him, " I can't go on this way any longer. I don't 
know much about business, — I never was brought 
up to understand those things, — but I am sure 
there wasn't enough left of my property, after my 
father's — there can't be enough to support us. 
Don't think I don't guess what you have done, 
all you have been, how generous, how chivalrous. 
Cousin Sterling ! Cousin Sterling ! I would rather 
die than hurt your feelings, but I cannot go on 
like this. I must do something, — I must support 
myself and my child. I am going to teach draw- 
ing. Nannie is getting me up a class. They call it 
an Art School ! " One swift, mocking smile went 
up whimsically from her sad face to the preacher's 
listening one. 
" And I am going to be visiting housekeeper 
for some — for some of my old friends. An hour 
a morning for each house, you know. When I get 
used to it, that will be as easy as swimming. That 
was Mrs. Marriot's idea. I have quite a waiting list 
already. You did not think it would come to this 
when you converted her, did you ? " 
 
But the preacher would not smile. A frowning 
silence answered her. 
" That isn't all," added Carolyn, quite distinctly. 
" I have rented one of my rooms. I have rented 
my husband's office to this new person, this Dr. 
Royal. He is to live at Solomon Hops's," she 
went on timidly, for she was frightened at the 
displeasure on her cousin's commanding face. " He 
will take his meals there, and he will sleep there. 
This is only for office hours, and, you see, on 
account of the dentist, and poor Solomon can't live 
without a doctor in the house, — and he offers a 
very good rent, — and it pleases Nannie — " she 
floundered helplessly, and went over her depth in 
her broken words. 
" I can't have this," cried Sterling Hart. " I can- 
not have it ! " He rose to his great height, and 
stood against the background of his books. The 
quiet, the shelter, the thoughtfulness of the room, 
its familiar atmosphere of ease and dignity, for 
a moment overcame her, and she lifted to her 
cousin a piteous, homesick smile. He stretched 
out his arms. 
"See! "he said, "they are strong enough to 
carry it all." 
But she shook her head, and weeping, left him. 
He lifted the child, and in a silence that neither 
broke, walked beside her across the iron bridge, 
 
which, still as ever, spanned the gulf between 
himself and her. 
Even the boy did not talk. His respect for the 
ravine was too great. He shut his eyes that he 
might not see it, and cuddled on the preachers 
neck, his little head curled like a Maltese spaniel's 
beneath a master's chin. Joyce was always at his 
best and prettiest with Mr. Hart. The elf or the 
imp went out of him, and the Murillo cherub 
came in. The childless man liked the fatherless, 
unruly little fellow, and a big, warm hand patted 
him all the way across the iron bridge. 
" Mum — Mumma," suggested Joyce, when he 
had said his prayers that night, " if I were God, I 'd 
be like Mr. Cousin Sterling Hart. I ain't God," 
added the boy, argumentatively. " I know ain't 's 
bad grammar. You don't need to tell me rings I 
know. Say, Mum — Mumma, doesn't God ever 
talk bad grammar ? I should fink — why, I should 
fink He 'd do it zhust for fun. If I were God, you 
bet I 'd talk bad grammar. I 'd do it every Sunday, 
after shurch, Mumma." 
Dr. Royal came slowly up the path to the cot- 
tage. He had walked, it seemed, from Solomon's, 
and was evidently tired. The collie followed him, 
sniffing at his heels. Mrs. Dane had not witnessed
the meeting between the man and the doe, 
 
which occurred at a little distance from the house; 
but it struck her as doubtful whether Clyde 
recognized in the new lodger the derelict whom he had 
saved from the sea. The dog looked perplexed and 
excited, a trifle sullen. He stood with one ear up 
and one ear down, and studied the stranger, while 
Kathleen admitted him cordially. Afterwards 
Clyde came to the mistress, and said something 
which she did not understand. 
Mrs. Dane was sitting in the office in her 
black dress. She rose as the physician entered, 
and greeted him with that marked graciousness 
which one assumes to conceal a reluctant
welcome. She was pale about the mouth, but she had 
her charming manner. The physician observed 
her keenly. 
" You are very good to consider this matter," 
he began at once. " Pray believe that I appreciate 
your hospitality." 
" Let us call things by their true names from 
the first," replied Mrs. Dane, smiling cautiously. 
" It is not hospitality. It is business. You need an 
office, and I — " She stopped. 
" You are perfectly right, Madam," answered 
Dr. Royal, quickly. "We will call everything by 
its true name — if you do me the honor to admit 
me as your tenant. It is a pleasant room." He 
looked about it, sighing contentedly. " A man 
 
could not ask a more homelike place to — to do 
good work in. The thing I fear most is that the 
calls of patients may annoy you. Not that I have 
so very many yet. But I should be quite candid 
with you. Their number is increasing. You might 
find their presence troublesome." 
"On the contrary," replied Mrs. Dane, with a 
formal bow, " I am accustomed to that. I am the 
widow of a physician, you remember." 
" So," he said, " I have been told." 
Carolyn, who had up to this regarded the man 
as one looks without seeing, through the film of 
the emotion and the reluctance that contended 
within her at the admission of a stranger to her 
home, now concentrated her gaze upon him 
studiously. She saw a middle-aged or elderly man as 
gray as he at whom she had shuddered when he 
was laid, the mangled prey of the hurricane, upon 
the dead leaves at her feet. She saw a face bearded 
as white as its hair, and blasted by suffering ; 
rather a gentle face, appealing, and sad. She was 
prepared to believe the story of his shipwreck 
when she perceived how marred and scarred his 
countenance was. He seemed to have been beaten 
or shattered by physical disaster. He was, it ap- 
peared, incurably lame, and limped at every step; 
not painfully, but patiently. Nothing about him 
was, so far, repulsive to her. But his voice — and 
 
Carolyn was sensitive to voices — was scarcely 
less than that. It was hoarse, and grated upon her 
taste, if not her nerves. She made up her mind 
before he had spoken six words that she did not 
like it. 
She made as short work as she could of the 
business details necessary to the occasion, and as 
soon as possible she rose to put an end to the 
interview. The lame doctor stood leaning on his 
cane, and she could not help thinking that he met 
the situation gently, timidly, in fact, as if he were 
unduly conscious of the trouble that he was about 
to make her. He gave the impression at that first 
hour that he was considerate of her, that he was 
not absorbed in his own interests, that he was 
capable of appreciating her position and respecting 
it, as no vulgar man could do. 
" He is a gentleman," she thought. At that in- 
stant the little boy pounced into the office, and 
backed up against her to regard the stranger, who 
glanced at him politely, — scarcely more than that, 
— indifferently asking: — 
" And his name, Madam? " 
"Joyce," replied the mother; "shake hands with 
Dr. Royal." 
Joyce debated obedience to this command with 
a silent scowl, but decided to extend a little criti- 
cal hand. This Dr. Royal took ceremoniously, as 
 
if they had been two gentlemen, and dropped it 
slowly. 
" When may I come ? " he asked, looking around 
the office. He had already noticed the bookcases, 
filled with medical works, well bound and abun- 
dant ; and he had observed that the glass doors 
covering them were locked. 
"Would you like the bookcases removed?" 
suggested Mrs. Dane. 
" Thank you, — no. My library is not so large. 
It will occupy but little space." 
Carolyn was silent. Common kindliness and 
courtesy prompted her to offer the use of her
husband's library to the physician lodger. But she did 
not do it. Her revolt at the situation in which she 
had placed herself was more acute than she had 
foreseen, and she felt it to be impossible to see 
Chanceford's books in the man's hand. 
" When do you wish to come ? " she asked, 
reverting to his unanswered question. 
" At once. This evening, — this afternoon, — 
if I may. Would that inconvenience you ? " 
Dr. Royal put the point half urgently, half tim- 
idly, as if it really mattered to him more than he 
found it chivalrous to say. 
" No," said Mrs. Dane, hesitating perceptibly. 
" On the whole, I don't know that it makes any 
difference. You might as well come to-day." If 
 
her tone said, " And have it over with," her words 
did not. The lodger bowed without reply, and 
took his hat. 
In the afternoon, Dr. Royals belongings
preceded him. These proved to be few, and easily 
bestowed, — a box of books, no more than one ; 
his instruments and medicines; a smoking-coat 
and cap ; an extra raglan and pair of rubbers, for 
wet weather ; trifles indicating that the man was 
obliged to be careful of his health. Just before 
dark he followed his scanty property. Carolyn 
winced when she heard the latch-key turn in his 
hand. She sat still and did not present herself. 
But the collie did, and the boy. Barking and laugh- 
ing, the two ran to greet the stranger's incoming 
step. Clyde received the doctor with respect, or 
even cordiality, and Joyce played about the office 
until his mother called him away. She went up- 
stairs to put the child to bed, and remained some 
time in the little fellow's room. She tried not to 
hear the feet of the stranger moving about her 
husband's office, but his steps pursued her shrink- 
ing ears. Gradually she became accustomed to the 
sound as one does to a dull toothache. A few taps 
from a hammer indicated that Dr. Royal was nail- 
ing up his sign above her cottage door. 
" Mumma," said Joyce, sleepily, " did God make 
Dr. Royal ? " 
 
" Joyce, how many times must I tell you ? You 
should not be always talking about God. Yes, I 
suppose He did." 
" I should fink," argued Joyce, " that God 
wouldn't trouble himself to make such a sorry- 
fool man." 
" Such a what ? Oh, sorrowful." 
" I said ' sorryfool,' didn't I ? Say, Mumma, 
could God make a green pig if He wanted to ? 
Mumma ! Could He make a blue kitty with a pink 
tail and a purple — purple — purp — " 
The sketch of this artistic animal lapsed slowly, 
and silence received it on her uncritical canvas. 
When the boy was quite asleep, Mrs. Dane came 
downstairs. She really had no excuse for doing 
otherwise. The office door was open, and the 
warmth of its lights melted across the hall. As 
she crossed the glimmer, in her black dress, the 
doctor came out and spoke to her. 
" I am going now. Shall I put out the gas, or 
would you like to have me leave it for a while ? I 
thought perhaps you might — Pray feel at lib- 
erty to occupy the room when I am not in it. I 
should be more comfortable. I do not like to feel 
that I am turning you out — I should take it as a 
courtesy." 
" Not on any account," quickly answered Mrs. 
Dane. " I thank you, but the room is yours." 
 
" Pardon me," said Dr. Royal. " I will bid you 
good-night." 
He bowed, and shut the cottage door. Carolyn 
remained alone in the living-room. Pugnaciously 
she said to herself, " I will not step into the office, 
I will not do it." In an agitation of which she 
felt ashamed, she ran out of the front door, and 
sat down on the piazza behind the nasturtiums. 
It seemed to her as if she could not bear the roof 
over her head. She laid her burning cheek upon 
the arm of her piazza chair, and so, seeing no- 
thing, started when a voice from the summer 
darkness said : — 
" Has that man gone ? " 
"Oh, Cousin Sterling!" Half laughing, half 
crying, she put out her hands impulsively, and 
the preacher gravely closed his own about them 
both. 
" I never was so glad to see you ! " pleaded 
Carolyn. " Yes, Dr. Royal has gone. Office hours 
are only from seven to eight. You see he will 
go early and often, like the American voter. He 
seems," she added, " to be in poor health. One 
cannot help regretting that. What do you sup- 
pose Joyce called him ? " 
" What did Joyce call him ? " 
" A sorryfool man." 
" Oh, we 're all that ! Joyce is usually more 
 
original — Come down to the shore," said the 
preacher, "and forget it all. No? Well, never 
mind. Then I will stay here." 
He threw his head back with a lofty motion of 
his chin that every one who knew him loved. 
Carolyn looked affectionately into his powerful, 
protecting face. 
CHAPTER XV 
The point where a repugnance turns into an at- 
traction is as hard to draw as the water-line in a 
smoky sou'wester. 
Dr. Charles Royal proved an unimpeachable 
tenant. With a tact which Mrs. Dane could not 
overlook, he tried to intrude on her as little as 
possible; making himself, so far as he might, a 
shadow upon the walls of her life. The hours 
which he spent in his office were limited, and it 
was a considerable time before he ever exceeded 
them. Now and then, upon a stormy evening, she 
observed that he would stay and smoke after the 
patients had gone. For this indulgence he had 
asked her permission. At first the scent of tobacco 
in her widowed house had been painful to Carolyn. 
She was a little shocked to find how soon she 
wonted herself to it, and that, in fact, it ceased to 
be disagreeable to her. 
For a week or two she continued to wince from 
the click of the latch-key in the stranger's hand. 
Before she was in any sense aware of it, she had 
begun to experience in this trifling sound some- 
thing akin to pleasure. Her lonely house seemed 
 
less desolate to her for the presence of this other 
lonely person, the quiet, unobtrusive, busy man. 
Mrs. Dane was now a woman of business, and 
it may have been in part her preoccupation in 
the delight of becoming a wage-earner that forced 
her out of the morbid reluctance with which she 
had received her lodger. She began, in a word, 
to view him and herself more naturally, and so 
more cheerfully. The physician, whose quiet eye 
was trained to observe everything, noticed before 
the summer was over a certain gentle difference 
in her, like the brightening shapes of a cloud 
whose shadow one has been watching. Once or 
twice he thought he heard her singing about the 
house. They met, of course. Now and then they 
interchanged a few words. When occasion called 
for it, they talked a little, — of his practice, of her 
boy, of affairs. Neither spoke of the other's
private history ; their attitude was as impersonal as 
if they had been meeting and parting at some so- 
ciety function. Carolyn's fine dignity found itself 
matched or even challenged by a reserve quite the 
equal of her own. In one respect she allowed 
herself to overstep the invisible line which her tact 
and good sense had drawn between them. His 
delicate health appealed to her. She could not 
restrain her natural sympathy with suffering. She 
found it impossible not to consider him, to regard 
 
his comfort. She acquired the sense of responsi- 
bility which a warm-hearted woman feels for any 
member of her household. He observed that she 
directed her maid to dry his overcoat upon a 
stormy night. Once, when he had a coughing 
cold, Kathleen brought him hot coffee ; Mrs. Dane 
had noticed that he drank nothing stronger. One 
morning — he had been her tenant for six weeks 
— he found the glass doors of the bookcase con- 
taining the medical library unlocked. When he 
called her attention to the circumstance, she 
said : — 
" Use them. Why not? I have begun to think 
that I was mistaken about that. The dead are not 
selfish; it is only the living. I am sure my 
husband would prefer it. Pray feel at liberty to consult 
Dr. Dane's library whenever you choose." 
Dr. Royal regarded her gently. His sad eyes 
said, "I know what this costs you." But he did 
not speak. He handled one or two of the books 
with the affectionate eagerness of a struggling 
professional man who finds at his command a li- 
brary beyond his own means. She saw that his 
hand was unsteady as he returned the books to 
their shelves. 
" You are kind to me," he said. 
" And you to me," said Mrs. Dane, impulsively. 
She was frightened when she had spoken these 
 
four words, and half ashamed of them. She turned 
away from him, and drifted out of the office door 
like a flying feeling. As if it would help matters 
any, she came bravely back, and explained herself: 
" I mean — you are such a considerate tenant. 
You have made so little trouble. You never 
make any if you can help it. And you have been 
very good to my little boy. I have to leave him 
alone so much. He says you tell him stories, 
and — " 
" Does he ? " interrupted the doctor. " Then he 
tells tales. I advised him not to mention that." 
" Thank you for mending the blind the other 
day," proceeded Mrs. Dane. " And the bulkhead 
— Kathleen says you did something to that. And 
Joyce's express cart — I am not a very good 
carpenter. And I am pretty busy with my scholars 
and my employers. A great many things have to 
go — " She paused uncomfortably. 
" You have your share of care," replied the doc- 
tor, quietly. " Will you permit me to say that you 
carry it remarkably well ? " 
" I thank you, Dr. Royal," said Mrs. Dane, re- 
gaining herself and speaking ceremoniously. She 
looked very young in her widow's dress ; she 
had her sweet expression. The doctor watched her 
with slow, pursuant eyes. But patients were arriv- 
ing, and their complaining voices rose between 
 
the two. And now, as Carolyn went out of the 
door to her morning's work, she met her cousin 
coming in. 
" Where to-day ? " he asked happily, falling into 
step beside her. " Let me go, too — a little way." 
" Yes," said Carolyn, dreamily. " You can walk 
with me — a little way." 
Then she began to chat merrily enough. " I 
have a servant to dismiss for Tracie Benton's 
mother. And a Mab Miller luncheon to oversee. 
And my ' Art School ' has an exhibition this after- 
noon. ' Picture it ! Think of it ! ' I am as busy as 
a miracle. Sometimes I think I am a miracle." 
" When you are tired of the miraculous, let me 
know," said Sterling Hart. He looked down from 
his great height with a grave, composed smile. 
But his eyes were not composed. He had never 
been reconciled, as the phrase goes, to Carolyn's 
stubborn venture at the game of self-support. The 
Art School and the play at keeping house for 
East Shore society he could tolerate if he must. 
The tenant he had never forgiven. Carolyn 
perceived that he experienced unprecedented
responsibilities in her behalf. He made it natural to see 
her frequently — more often than ever in her life. 
She felt shielded and beloved by her kinsman. 
When she was with him he seemed to bound the 
map of her life. She rejoiced in his familiar per- 
 
sonality, in his tried character, in his strong, safe 
qualities. The stranger within her gates passed 
easily out of her mind. If his sad eyes, his 
appealing smile, remained with her, it was on the level 
of that subconsciousness where a lonely woman 
thrusts the least vital, but possibly the most
dangerous, of the conflicting affections that beset her 
widowed life. Carolyn walked on happily with 
Sterling Hart. His good spirits, his good health, 
his good fortune, rested her. 
" Dear Cousin Sterling ! " she said. " Nobody ever 
has to feel sorry for you? 
Sterling Hart lowered his luminous eyes upon 
her. He did not find it necessary to reply. She 
felt, without seeing, that proud upward motion of 
his chin which she had never known in any other 
person. It intensified the antique impression of 
his Roman head and face, with their multiple, 
modern waves of feeling. He seemed to her — for 
he had always seemed to her — as much stronger 
as he was taller than other men ; as much nobler as 
he was more self-commanded. Once she had seen 
him possessed by an angel's anger. Why should 
she recall it now, — in this mystical, magical sum- 
mer morning ? There was an August fog, a great 
and glamorous shining, half gold, half silver, and 
all glory. As he towered against the sea-line, this 
rayed about him, like the aureola of some mighty, 
 
manly saint. Yet once she had seen him look as 
if he could have crushed a man by a blow of his 
clenched hand. He had come unexpectedly upon 
her husband in one of Chanceford Dane's dis- 
graced hours, and stood looking at the pitiable 
figure — as he did. He had an angel's beauty, but 
all an angel's scorn. 
The mist in Carolyn's eyes grew thicker than 
the shining fog. 
" Poor Chanceford ! " she thought. " Oh, poor 
Chanceford ! " 
In the revolution of an instant, " all men beside 
him were but shadows." He alone had substance 
who had taken the first kiss from her young lips. 
That day she went to the village churchyard, and 
carried flowers from her cottage garden to Dane's 
rather lonely grave. She knelt beside it in a pas- 
sion of penitence. Ever since what might be called 
the death-bed confession of Douce Marriot, Carolyn 
had felt as if the attitudes had been reversed be- 
tween herself and her husband's ghost. Whatever 
her wrongs, she now regarded his as deeper. She 
sensitively arraigned herself that she had given 
the natural interpretation to his proud and unfor- 
tunate silence. At times she broke her heart over 
the injustice which she had so blamelessly done 
him. Her regret was a brimming reservoir which 
answered to every stir in the sluice of feeling. At 
 
every crevice her sorrow overflowed in self-accu- 
sation. It needed but a touch, a jar, to start the 
surging current. Swept away by it and into it, 
she knelt that day and rededicated herself — any 
loving and grieving woman knows how — to the 
memory of her dead. 
When she rose from her knees she perceived 
that some one was entering the churchyard by the 
avenue which she must pass to leave it. 
In her thin black dress, with its muslin finish at 
throat and wrists, with her wistful face, her pale 
coloring, her wearily folded hands, she stood as if 
she had been carved upon the marble that marked 
her husband's grave — a statue of Grief Perplexed. 
Her uneasiness did not diminish when she saw 
who it was that she must greet and pass. Dr. 
Royal had uncovered his gray head. He gave no 
other sign that he was conscious of her presence, 
and continued his stroll through the churchyard 
by another way. 
That evening at office hours Carolyn was not 
to be seen. Patients were many, and the doorbell 
rang steadily. When they had all gone, Joyce and 
Clyde pranced in to play with the doctor. But 
Mrs. Dane remained upstairs. If she listened for 
the uneven step of her lodger, she gave no sign. 
His kind, hoarse voice parleyed with the boy, and 
cherished the dog; absently, she thought. She 
 
crept down the back stairs, being minded, she 
could hardly have told why, to escape him. She 
stepped into the living-room, thinking that she 
would light the gas, but did not light it, and sat 
down in the dark, irresolute. The office door was 
open. Within its plaque of light she saw the man, 
the child, and the dog, — each quiet, and all con- 
tent. The collie was asleep, with his long nose 
upon the doctor's foot. But Joyce — where was 
the boy ? At first she doubted the evidence of her 
optic nerve, and smote the mist from her smart- 
ing eyes to see, and see again, the curling child 
cuddled beneath a white beard in the stranger's 
neck ; like a love into a cloud or mantle ; a little 
melting shape that trusted where she questioned, 
and clung when she rebuffed. 
In the dark there, unseen, and now unseeing, 
her face fell into her hands. Against every fibre 
of her nature, every sinew of her will, she found 
herself dragged by the undertow of a mysterious 
attraction. How should a high-minded woman 
experience the tides that dashed her feeling to 
and fro ? She sat drowned in the crimson of her 
self-scorn. For there are three tidal waves on the 
ocean of widowhood. If the first is loneliness and 
the second despairing doubt, the third is disloyalty 
to the dead. 
Carolyn felt that she was in the breakers of her 
 
own being. She called upon her husband's name 
and memory as she would have called upon the 
power of God if she had been a drowning woman. 
"Chanceford! Chanceford! Can't you help 
me?" 
The click of the front-door latch interrupted 
this prayer of the wife. When she looked, the 
office was empty. Clyde was fumbling in her neck 
with his cold nose, and her little boy — less keen 
of divination than the dog — stood calling for her 
in the hall. She heard the tired step of the lame 
doctor limping down the path. 
Sterling Hart was uneasy. Himself he would 
have flung to any fate for Cara's sake. He would 
have effaced himself from her life if that could 
have purchased her happiness. To give her joy he 
would have paid any price in personal suffering. 
His feeling was as simple as Christianity, whose 
other name is sacrifice. It could hardly be said 
that personal hope entered very much into his 
consciousness at this or any other time; although, 
perhaps, more at this than any other. But that he 
was distinctly uneasy he did not deny to himself. 
His cousin's acquaintance with the physician, her 
tenant, troubled him. 
Any persistent idea is a stream which 
everything tends to increase. Rivulets of impressions 
 
from one source or another ran into the preacher's 
prevailing anxiety for Carolyn. One September 
day he saw Mrs. Marriot driving a Salvation Army 
lassie to the train, and on the way home she over- 
took him, beckoning. 
" Is Mrs. Dane going to marry the new doctor?" 
she asked point-blank. "He is a brilliant 
fellow, and he saved my life. I am under 
obligations to him that one can never overlook ; and it 
is plainly not my business, Mr. Hart. But — " 
" But what ? " demanded the preacher. 
" I don't know," replied Douce Marriot. " That 's 
just it — I dorit know but what." 
In October Nannie Hops came on some trifling 
pretext to the preacher's house. The girl seemed 
troubled, and there was a tangle in her pretty 
brows. 
" Father returns the magazines," she began. 
" He thanks you, Mr. Hart. Mrs. Dane and I car- 
ried some to the Art School to show the pictures. 
Mr. Hart, there 's something I want to say to you. 
It is about Mrs. Dane." 
" Go on," said the preacher, for Nannie stopped. 
"If she should marry Dr. Royal — "faltered 
Nannie. "You know how much we think of Dr. 
Royal, don't you ? You won't take me the wrong 
way, will you ? I — why, I admire Dr. Royal ! " cried 
Nannie, vehemently. "But — " 
 
"But what?" asked Sterling Hart, as he had 
asked before. And, as before, the answer came : " I 
don't know — Mr. Hart, I don t know. There are 
things — " 
" What things ? " 
" I don't know how to explain myself. There 
seem to be reasons — " 
" What reasons ? " persisted the preacher. 
"That's just it," said Nannie. " If I could put 
my reasons so you could understand them, — but 
I can't do it. I don't know how to tell you why I 
feel the way I do." 
" I think you ought to be explicit," replied Cara's 
kinsman, frowning. 
Nannie said a few words in a lowered voice. 
" Is that all ? " cried the preacher. He gave a 
large masculine wave of the hand, as if he dis- 
missed an unimportant and feminine thought. 
" It is nothing against Dr. Royal ! " repeated 
Nannie. " It isn't the first thing against Dr. 
Royal. But — Mr. Hart! Don't let Mrs. Dane 
marry again. Don't let her marry ##ybody. It — 
it 's too soon." 
The preacher stared at the excited girl; he had 
gone quite pale. He felt, for the instant, as if a 
sacred secret, scarcely admitted by his own soul 
to itself, had come back to him from the atmos- 
phere in articulation. 
 
It proved to be a cold winter, and life in the 
cottage became difficult and bare, accordingly. 
All that remained of the threadbare nasturtium 
draperies on the piazza trellis broke away under 
the first big storm like a valuable old rug that has 
been put into a washtub. The furnace was middle- 
aged and as fretful as a sick woman. The 
plumbing was fickle, and the halls drafty. Kathleen had 
the toothache, and Joyce took cold. The boy's 
little illnesses the doctor treated skillfully, with a 
care amounting to tenderness. To the assortment 
of emotions with which she now regarded her ten- 
ant, Carolyn began to add gratitude. 
Dr. Royal was chronically, ingeniously kind. 
Too often she heard him limp down the cellar 
stairs on a bitter evening, to feed or inspect the 
old, cold furnace for her. Sometimes in the drift- 
ing snows she would find the lame man digging 
out her paths. He put aside her protests as if they 
had been snowflakes that he rubbed out of his 
eyes ; quite silently. It proved difficult to conceal 
the shifts and secrets of her impoverished house- 
hold from him. Nothing escaped his knowledge, 
as nothing eluded his relieving instinct. He 
began to seem to her the most thoughtful of men. 
Over the disk of other manly qualities that she 
had known his slowly advanced; as an eclipse 
slides over the moon or the sun. It was 
impossible to disown the terrible candor of memory 
which confronted the dead with the living; and 
unhappily for the ghos.t of Chanceford Dane, mar- 
riage had not expiated the faults of his careless 
nature to his wife. 
Dane's had been a gay, gregarious nature, debo- 
nair and winning. Charles Royal was a thought- 
ful man, personally unattractive, and morally a 
magnet. Dane had not been always kind. The 
doctor had an undiverted tenderness. Dane had 
neglected her when he felt inclined. Royal had 
the plain, domestic devotion which women rate 
so high in the scale of masculine qualities. Dane 
had demanded everything, and given what he 
chose. This man asked nothing, and gave her all 
he had — his silent homage, his delicate protec- 
tion. He had the attitude of romance in the dull 
conditions of daily life. He was to her as if she had 
been the queen of the sad earth and the happy 
heaven. Yet it was impossible for her to deceive 
herself — she knew that he loved her; the more, 
because he did not say so. Her common prudence 
and common sense taught her that this man of an 
unknown past, of an uncertain future, must not 
be permitted to endear himself to her. But her 
trembling heart told her that she was approaching 
the invisible boundary where a man and woman 
must separate or unite. She recognized the way- 
 
marks of the familiar road with the cautious can- 
dor of one who experiences a second love, and 
who would convince herself, if she could, that she 
was not disloyal to the first. Again she knew the 
eternal pang and the eternal joy which keep the 
world's heart young. 
" This cannot last," she said. " I must put an 
end to it." Sometimes she added, with the docility 
of a little girl who lives in awe of family traditions, 
" Cousin Sterling is perfectly right. It has got to 
stop." 
But nothing stopped. The romance and the 
winter ran their course. As Cara sat attentive to 
the rhythm of the surf upon the ice-bound coast, 
it seemed to her as if she listened to some ancient 
saga frosted with the rapture and the bitterness 
of life; to some perplexity as new as last moon's 
phases ; some secret as inscrutable as to-morrow's 
fate. 
Sterling Hart watched her with mute, strong 
eyes. He came out frequently from the city ; so 
often that she felt the silent protest of his presence 
against the current of her heart. He observed her 
sadly. Less and less he argued with her or coun- 
seled her. Once again he felt himself rivaled by 
the inferior nature. Now, as before, he was baffled 
by the magic which wove its web around her. 
It will be well remembered by his people and 
by the public that the Reverend Sterling Hart 
did that year a thing not very common in the 
pulpit of his church, and without recent precedent 
in his own. He preached what is known in the 
phraseology of moral reform as a temperance 
sermon. 
It was a Sunday evening sermon, after Easter, 
in late April. The church was crowded to the 
aisles, and largely filled with men. It had been 
understood that the eminent clergyman would 
treat the subject of the drinking habit, and a
perplexed surprise was felt by the ignorant — none 
whatever by the wise — when it was noted that he 
handled his vulgar theme with an extraordinary 
reserve. 
He did not describe degradation. He portrayed 
nobility. He did not depict the deformities of sin. 
He dwelt on the beauty of holiness. He spoke 
of honor, of self-control, of purity. He spoke of 
strong and steadfast qualities, of beautiful and 
winning things; of all that is high-minded, whole- 
souled, and clean-bodied ; of all that a man might 
be who honored his manhood — not of what he 
had become who had failed in reverence for it. 
Once he drew himself to his commanding height 
(one of his people who loved him used to call it 
"his archangel size"), and his noble countenance 
blazed with a white fire of contempt and pity such 
 
as one may live a long life and not see on any 
face. 
" And yet," he said, " there are men who give 
themselves up to low sins . . . and drunkenness? 
As the preacher spoke these words, far back in 
the packed house his luminous eye fell upon two 
men, one young, one elderly, sitting side by side, 
and listening with held breath. Something in their 
attitude and absorption, something more in their 
appearance, arrested his attention. One of the men 
he knew, and the other — he thought the other 
was no stranger. But as he gazed, out of the man's 
soul there leaped a look — one only — before which 
the preacher's startled heart stood still. As soon 
as the service came to an end he disappeared 
from sight, and in an incredible time, still in 
his gown and surplice, his forehead wet yet with 
his emotion, reappeared in the crowd of 
worshipers who were thronging to the vestibule. The 
younger of the two men who had aroused his
attention was about to push through the muffled 
doors when the clergyman laid a hand upon his 
shoulder. 
" Timothy ? Timothy George ? " 
"Well, sir," said Timothy, deferentially. "It's 
me, sir. That was a wonderful fine sermon, Mr. 
Hart." 
"Never mind the sermon/' said Mr. Hart. 
 
" Where 's the man ? Who was the man that sat 
next you ? Has he gone ? " 
" He seems to have," replied Timothy, with a 
stolid, guarded look. 
" There was something about him," insisted the 
preacher. " I thought at first I knew him. I was 
sure I did. But he was so far off, — and the light 
was dim. Then I thought, — do you know him, 
Timothy ? " 
Timothy was silent. 
" Come with me," said Mr. Hart, authoritative 
and pale. Now Timothy was one of the preacher's 
penitents, and he followed with docility to the 
pastor's room. There Sterling Hart shut and 
locked the door. 
" I thought," he repeated, " that I knew that 
man, — and while I was preaching, suddenly he 
seemed to me — I thought I was mistaken. Was 
I?" 
" I don't know, sir," said Timothy, doggedly. 
" If I did, I don't see as I 've got any call to jab- 
ber, —do you? But I don't. I tell you, Mr. Hart, 
