of never losing a hair's-breadth of ground once gained, keeping his
communications constantly open with the base from which he had
started, bringing up fresh forces to the front without intermission,
and playing his heavy artillery with judgment and tenacity.
'The number doesn't matter,' Margaret said, 'for I've forgotten all
about the Beast.'
'Thank you,' answered Mr. Van Torp. 'To change the subject--I've got a
little scheme to propose. Maybe you'll think well of it. Anyhow, as
it's a mere matter of business connected with your career, you won't
mind my explaining it to you, will you?'
'No, indeed!' Margaret was interested at once. 'Do tell me!' she said,
leaning forward a little.
'Well,' he began, 'I've looked around this place a good deal since
I've been here, and I've come to the conclusion that it's not very
well done, anyhow, except Parsifal. That's what most of the people
really come for. I'm informed that they give all the other operas
better in Munich, with the advantage of being in what you may call a
Christian town, compared with this. Is that correct, do you think?'
'Yes, I believe so.'
'It is, you can depend upon it. Now, what I want to know is, why you
and I shouldn't go into a little business partnership, and do this
kind of thing brown, as it ought to be done.' Margaret opened her
handsome eyes wide. 'Because,' continued Mr. Van Torp, as coolly as if
he were explaining a new plan to a board of directors, 'we've got the
capital and the ability between us, and there's a demand in New York
for what I propose to do. It'll fill a want, I know, and that means
success and money. Why don't we build a theatre together? When I say a
theatre, I mean a first-class opera-house and not a barn. We'll employ
the best architects to build it, and, of course, I'd leave everything
about it to you. I've got a block in New York just about in the right
place, and it won't take long to build. I'll give the land and put up
the money for the building, if you'll undertake the management. You'll
put in any money you like, of course, and we'll share the profits.
Maybe they'll be quite handsome, for we'll lease the theatre to other
people outside of the season. We'll have the best talent in Europe,
and pay for it, and the public will pay us back. We'll call it the
Cordova Opera, if you like, and you'll run it according to your own
ideas, and sing or not, whenever you please.'
'Are you in earnest?'
Margaret had some difficulty in pronouncing the words clearly. He had
brought up some very heavy artillery indeed, and at the right moment.
Was there ever a great soprano who did not dream of having the most
perfect theatre of her very own, and who could receive unmoved the
offer to build one from a man who could build twenty if he chose? Very
rarely in her life had she been aware of her bodily heart, but she
could feel it now, beating like a hammer on the anvil.
'I'm in earnest,' Van Torp answered with perfect calm. 'I've thought
the whole thing over in all its aspects, just as I would a railroad,
or a canal, or a mine, and I've concluded to try it, if you'll help
me, because it's going to be a safe investment. You see, Miss Donne,'
he went on slowly, 'there's no artist on the Grand Opera stage now
who's so well equipped for the business as you are. I'm not flattering
you, either. In your own kind of parts you've simply got no rival.
Everybody says so, and I suppose you won't play kitty and deny it.
Let's start fair, now.'
'It would be silly to deny that I'm one of the first,' Margaret
admitted.
'That'll do, thank you. One of the first, and the first is one of
them, and you're it. Besides, you've got before you what's behind most
of them. You're young. I'm not talking about your personal appearance,
but that's just one more item in the assets. Another big one is that
you're a first-class musician, whereas half these singers can only
bang the box like great, thundering, overgrown schoolgirls. Allow
that?'
'I suppose I must "allow" anything!' laughed the Primadonna.
'Well, now, I've told you. You've got the name I need, and you've got
the voice, and the talent, and you've got the science and culture. I
suppose you'll let me say that I've got the business ability, won't
you?'
The iron mouth smiled a little grimly.
'Rather! I fancy some people have wished you had less!'
'And the money's here, for I always have a blank cheque in my pocket.
If you like, I'll fill it in, and we'll deposit it wherever you say,
in the name of the "Cordova Opera Company," or "Madame da Cordova,
Rufus Van Torp and Co." We can make out our little agreement in
duplicate right here, on the corner of the table, and sign it; and
before we leave here you might go around and speak to the best singers
about an engagement in New York for a Wagner festival, a year from
next Christmas. That's business, and this is a purely business
proposition. If you'd like to think it over, I'll go and take a little
walk before dinner.'
'It sounds like a dream!' Margaret answered, in a wondering tone.
'Money's an awful reality,' Van Torp remarked. 'I'm talking business,
and as I'm the one who's going to put up most of the capital, you'll
do me the credit to believe that I'm quite wide awake.'
'Do you really, really, really mean it?' She spoke almost like a
child.
It was not the first time in his life that the financier had seen the
stunning effect of a big sum, projected with precision, like a shell,
at exactly the right moment. He was playing the great game again, but
for a prize he thought worth more than any he had yet won, and the
very magnitude of the risk steadied his naturally steady brain.
'Yes,' he said quietly, 'I do. Perhaps I've startled you a little, and
I shouldn't like you to make a decision till you feel quite ready to.
I'll just say again that I've thought the whole thing out as a genuine
venture, and that I believe in it, or I wouldn't propose it. Maybe
you've got some sensible lawyer you have confidence in, and would like
to consult him first. If you feel that way, I'd rather you should. A
business partnership's not a thing to go into with your eyes shut, and
if we had any reason for distrusting one another, it would be better
to make inquiries. But so far as that goes, it appears to me that
we've got facts to go on, which would make any partnership succeed.
You've certainly got the musical brains, besides a little money of
your own, and I've certainly got the rest of the funds. I'd like you
to put some money in, though, if you can spare it, because that's a
guarantee that you're going to be in earnest, too, and do your share
in the musical side. You see I'm talking to you just as I would to a
man in the same position. Not because I doubt that if you put your
name to a piece of paper you really will do your share as a partner,
but because I'm used to working in that sort of way in business. How
does that strike you? I hope you're not offended?'
'Offended!'
There was no mistaking the suppressed excitement and delight in her
voice. If he had possessed the intelligence of Mephistopheles and the
charm of Faust he could not have said anything more subtly pleasing to
her dignity and her vanity.
'Of course,' he said, 'it needn't be a very large sum. Still it ought
to be something that would make a difference to you.'
She hesitated a moment, and then spoke rather timidly.
'I think perhaps--if we did it--I could manage a hundred thousand
pounds,' she said. 'Would that be too little, do you think?'
The large mouth twitched and then smiled pleasantly.
'That's too much,' he said, shaking his head. 'You mustn't put all
your eggs in one basket. A hundred thousand dollars would be quite
enough as your share of the capital, with option to buy stock of me at
par, up to a million, or so, if it's a success.'
'Really? Would that be enough? And, please, what is "stock" in such a
case?'
'Stock,' said the financier, 'is a little plant which, when well
watered, will grow like the mustard seed, till all the birds of Wall
Street make their nests in its branches. And if you don't water it too
much, it'll be all right. In our case, the stock is going to be that
share of the business which most people sell to raise money, and
which we mean to keep for ourselves. I always do it that way, when
circumstances allow. I once bought all the stock of a railroad for
nothing, for instance, and sold all the bonds, and let it go bankrupt.
Then I bought the road one day, and found all the stock was in my own
pocket. That's only a little illustration. But I guess you can leave
the financial side in my hands. You won't lose by it, I'm pretty
sure.'
'I fancy not!' Margaret's eyes were wide open, her hands were clasped
tightly on her knee, and she was leaning forward a little. 'Besides,'
she went on, 'it would not be the money that I should care about! I
can earn more money than I want, and I have a little fortune of my
own--the hundred thousand I offered you. Oh, no! It would be the
splendid power to have the most beautiful music in the world given as
it could be given nowhere else! The joy of singing myself--the parts I
can sing--in the most perfect surroundings! An orchestra picked from
the whole world of orchestras, the greatest living leaders, the most
faultless chorus! And the scenery, and the costumes--everything as
everything could be, if it were really, really the best that can be
had! Do you believe it is possible to have all that?'
'Oh, yes, and with your name to it, too. We'll have everything on
earth that money can buy to make a perfect opera, and I'll guarantee
it'll pay after the first two seasons. That is, if you'll work at it
as hard as I will. But you've got to work, Miss Donne, you've got to
work, or it's no use thinking of it. That's my opinion.'
'I'll work like a Trojan!' cried Margaret enthusiastically.
'Trojans,' mused Van Torp, who wanted to bring her back to her
ordinary self before Mrs. Rushmore or Lady Maud came in. 'Let me see.
They say that because the Trojans had to work so hard to get over the
Alps coming down into Italy, don't they?'
Whether Mr. Van Torp made this monstrous assertion in ignorance, or
for effect, no one will ever know. An effect certainly followed at
once, for Margaret broke into an echoing laugh.
'I believe it was the Carthaginians,' she said presently. 'It's the
same thing, as Lady Maud is so fond of saying!'
'All in the family, as Cain said when he killed Abel,' observed Van
Torp without a smile.
Margaret looked at him and laughed again. She would have laughed at
anything in the remotest degree amusing just then, for she found it
hard to realise exactly what she was doing or saying. The possibility
he had suddenly placed within her reach appealed to almost everything
in her nature at once, to her talent, her vanity, her real knowledge
of her art, her love of power, even to her good sense, which was
unusually practical in certain ways. She had enough experience in
herself, and enough knowledge of the conditions to believe that her
own hard work, combined with Van Torp's unlimited capital, could and
certainly would produce such an opera-house, and bring to it such
artists as had never been seen and heard, except perhaps in Bayreuth,
during its first great days, now long past.
Then, too, he had put the matter before her so skilfully that she
could look upon it honestly as a business partnership, in which her
voice, her judgment, and her experience would bear no contemptible
proportion to his money, and in which she herself was to invest money
of her own, thereby sharing the risk according to her fortune as well
as giving the greater part of the labour. She felt for some weak place
in the scheme, groping as if she were dazzled, but she could find
none.
'I don't think I shall need time to think this over,' she said,
controlling her voice better, now that she had made up her mind. 'As I
understand it, I am to put in what I can in the way of ready-money,
and I am to give my time in all ways, as you need it, and my voice,
when it is wanted. Is that it?'
'Except that, when you choose to sing, the Company will allow you your
usual price for each appearance,' answered Van Torp in a business-like
manner. 'You will pay yourself, or we both shall pay you, just as much
as we should pay any other first-class soprano, or as much more as you
would get in London or New York if you signed an engagement.'
'Is that fair?' Margaret asked.
'Why, certainly. But the Company, which is you and I, will probably
rule that you mustn't sing in Grand Opera anywhere in the States east
of the Rockies. They've got to come to New York to hear you.
Naturally, you'll be free to do anything you like in Europe outside
of our season, when you can spare the time.'
'Of course.'
'Well, now, I suppose we might as well note that down right away, as a
preliminary agreement. What do you say?'
'I say that I simply cannot refuse such an offer!' Margaret answered.
'Your consent is all that's necessary,' he said, in a matter-of-fact
tone.
He produced from an inner pocket a folded sheet of foolscap, which he
spread on the corner of the table beside him. He took out a fountain
pen and began to write quickly. The terms and forms were as familiar
to him as the alphabet and he lost no time; besides, as he had told
the Primadonna, he had thought out the whole matter beforehand.
'What if Mrs. Rushmore comes in just as we are signing it?' asked
Margaret.
'We'll tell her, and ask her to witness our signatures,' replied Van
Torp without looking up. 'I judge Mrs. Rushmore to have quite a
knowledge of business.'
'You seem able to write and talk at the same time,' Margaret said,
smiling.
'Business talk, yes.' The pen ran on swiftly. 'There. That's about
all, I should say. Do you think you can read my writing? I don't
suppose you've ever seen it.'
He turned the page round, and handed it to her. The writing was large
and perfectly legible, but very different from the 'commercial' hand
of most American business men. Any one word, taken at random, might
have seemed unformed, at first sight, but the appearance of the whole
was oddly strong and symmetrical. Margaret read the clauses carefully.
She herself had already signed a good many legal papers in connexion
with her engagements and her own small fortune, and the language was
not so unfamiliar to her as it would have been to most women.
'Shall I sign first?' she asked, when she had finished. 'My own name?
Or my stage name?'
'Your own name, please,' said Van Torp without hesitation. 'The others
only binding in your profession, because you appear under it, and it's
your "business style."'
She wrote 'Margaret Donne' at the foot of the page in her large and
rather irregular hand, and passed the paper back to Van Torp, who
signed it. He waved the sheet slowly to and fro, to dry the ink.
'It's only a preliminary agreement,' he said, 'but it's binding as far
as it goes and I'll attend to the rest. You'll have to give me a power
of attorney for my lawyer in New York. By the bye, if you decide to
come, you can do that in Venice, where there's a real live consul.
That's necessary. But for all matters of business herein set forth, we
are now already "The Madame da Cordova and Rufus Van Torp Company,
organised for the purpose of building an Opera-house in the City of
New York and for giving public performances of musical works in the
same, with a nominal capital hereafter to be agreed upon." That's
what we are now.'
He folded the sheet, returned it to his inner pocket and held out his
hand in a cheerful, business-like manner.
'Shall we shake hands on it?' he asked.
'By all means,' Margaret answered readily, and their eyes met; but she
drew back her hand again before taking his. 'This is purely a matter
of business between us,' she said, 'you understand that? It means
nothing else?'
'Purely a matter of business,' answered Rufus Van Torp, slowly and
gravely.
CHAPTER XII
'Stemp,' said Mr. Van Torp, 'we must have something to eat on that
yacht.'
'Yes, sir. Quite so, sir.'
Stemp, who could do anything, was clipping the millionaire's thatch of
sandy hair, on the morning after the transaction last described. Mr.
Van Torp abhorred barbers and shaved himself, and in his less
'prominent' days he had been in the habit of cutting his own hair by
using two looking-glasses. The result had rarely been artistic, and
even Stemp was not what is described on some American signs as a
tonsorial artist, but he managed to clip his master's rough mane with
neatness and precision, if not in the 'Bond Street style.'
'I mean,' said Mr. Van Torp, explaining himself, 'we must have
something good to eat.'
'Oh, I see, sir,' answered Stemp, as if this were quite a new idea.
'Well, now, do you suppose you can get anything to eat in Italy?'
'Salmon-trout is very good there, sir, and quails are in season at the
end of August. They are just going back to Egypt at this time of the
year, sir, and are very fat. There's Gorgonzola cheese, too, and figs
and muscatel grapes are coming on. I think that's all, sir.'
'It's not bad. How about chickens?'
'Well, sir, the poultry in those parts is not much to boast of. An
Italian fowl is mostly either a hawk or a butterfly. That's my
experience, sir, when I travelled there with the late Duke of
Barchester, a few years ago. His Grace was most particular, sir,
having a poor stomach, and nothing to occupy his mind after the
Duchess died in a fit of rage, having thrown her wig at him, sir, they
do say, and then fallen down in a fit which was quite awful to see,
and ended as we all know.'
'As far as I can see, you'd better go on to Venice, Stemp,' said Mr.
Van Torp, not interested in his man's reminiscences. 'You'd better go
off to-night and tell Captain Brown to hurry up and get ready, because
I'm bringing a party of friends down the day after to-morrow. And then
you just scratch round and find something to eat.'
'Yes, sir. I'll telegraph to the caterers, and I think you'll be
satisfied, sir.'
'There's an American lady coming, who knows what's good to eat, and
likes it, and wants it, and means to get it, and you've got to find it
for her somehow. I can live on hog and hominy myself. And I shan't
want you in the least. You'd better take most of my baggage with you
anyway. Just leave my Tuxedo and a couple of suits, and some new
flannel pants and a shirt-case, and take the rest. But don't waste
time over that either if you've got to catch the train, for the main
thing's to get there right away. You can go first-class, Stemp--you
won't be so done up.'
'Thank you, sir.'
A silence followed, during which the valet's scissors made a
succession of little chinking noises; from time to time he turned Mr.
Van Torp's head very gingerly to a slightly different position.
'Stemp.'
'Yes, sir.'
'You take a good look around that yacht, and decide about the
state-rooms, before I come. This way. You give the best room to Miss
Donne, and have a large bouquet of carnations on the table. See?'
'Beg pardon, sir, but carnations are out of season.'
'You get them just the same.'
'Yes, sir.'
'And give the second-best room to her ladyship, Stemp, if there are
not two alike, but be extra careful to see that everything's
comfortable. Lady Maud likes wood violets, Stemp. You get a handsome
bouquet of them, and don't tell me they're out of season too, because
you've got to get them, anyway, so it's no use to talk.'
'Yes, sir. I see, sir.'
'And then you get the third-best room ready for Mrs. Rushmore, and you
get some flowers for her too, out of your own head. Maybe she likes
those roses with stems three feet long. Use your own judgment,
anyway.'
'Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.'
Another silence followed, and the hair-cutting was finished. Mr. Van
Torp glanced at himself in the glass and then turned to his valet.
'Say, Stemp, I was thinking. Maybe that third bedroom's not quite so
good as the others, and the lady might feel herself sort of
overlooked.'
'Yes, sir.'
'Well, I was thinking. If that's the case, and it looks sort of
second-class, you go out and get a man and have him gild it all around
nicely so as to brighten it up. I guess she'll think it's all right if
it's gilt and the others aren't. Some people are like that.'
'I see, sir. Yes, sir. I'll attend to it, sir. Will there be any more
ladies and gentlemen, sir?'
'There's that Russian gentleman, Count Kralinsky. Put him at the other
end of the ship, somewhere out of the way of the ladies. I suppose
he'll bring his valet, and there'll be two or three maids. That's all.
Now don't mind me any more, but just fly around, and don't forget
anything. Understand? We aren't going to be in England or the States,
where you can sit still and telephone for anything you've forgotten,
from peanuts to a funeral. You'll have to go full speed ahead in all
directions if you're going to wake things up.'
Thereupon Mr. Van Torp sat down by the window to read the paper.
His attention was arrested by a sensational 'scare-head' about a thief
and a ruby worth fifty thousand dollars. Some disaffected colleague in
London had known, or cleverly guessed, where the stone was that had
been stolen from Mr. Pinney's, and had informed the police; the
nice-looking young fellow who spoke like an English gentleman had
walked directly into the arms of the plain-clothes man waiting for
him on the pier in New York, the stone had been found sewn up in his
waistcoat, and his pleasant career of liberty had ended abruptly in a
cell.
Mr. Van Torp whistled softly as he read the account a second time.
Then he neatly cut the column out of the paper, folded it with great
precision, smoothed it with care and placed it in his pocket-book next
to a cheap little photograph of Madame da Cordova as 'Juliet,' which
he had bought in a music-shop in New York the day after he had heard
her for the first time, and had carried in his pocket ever since. He
looked up to see what Stemp was doing, and as the man was kneeling
before a box on the floor, with his back turned, he took out the
rather shabby photograph and gazed at it quietly for fully thirty
seconds before he put it back again.
He took up the mutilated newspaper and looked up and down the columns,
and among other information which he gathered in a few moments was the
fact that Logotheti's yacht had 'passed Cape Saint Vincent, going
east, owner and party on board.' The previous telegram had not escaped
him, and if he had entertained any doubts as to the destination of the
Erinna, they vanished now. She was certainly bound for the
Mediterranean. He remembered having heard that many steam yachts
coming from England put into Gibraltar for coal and fresh provisions,
coal being cheaper there than in French and Italian ports, and he
thought it very probable that the Erinna would do the same; he also
made some deductions which need not be explained yet. The only one
worth mentioning here was that Logotheti would be likely to hear in
Gibraltar that the ruby had been found and was on its way back to
England, and that as he would know that Margaret would be anxious
about it, since he had already given it to her, he would hardly let
the occasion of communicating with her go by. As for writing from
Gibraltar to any place whatsoever in the hope that a letter will
arrive in less than a week, it is sheer folly. Mr. Van Torp had never
tried it, and supposed it possible, as it looks, but he was tolerably
sure that Logotheti would telegraph first, and had perhaps done so
already, for the news of his passing Cape Saint Vincent was already
twenty-four hours old.
This was precisely what had happened. When Mr. Van Torp opened his
door, he came upon Margaret and Mrs. Rushmore on the landing, on the
point of going out for a walk, and a servant had just brought the
Primadonna a telegram which she was reading aloud, so that the
American could not help hearing her.
'"Cruising till wanted,"' she read quickly. '"Ruby found. Address,
yacht Erinna, Naples."'
She heard Van Torp close his door, though she had not heard him open
it, and turning round she found herself face to face with him. Her
eyes were sparkling with anger.
'Very sorry,' he said. 'I couldn't help hearing.'
'It's of no consequence, for I should have told you,' Margaret
answered briefly.
He argued well for himself from her tone and manner, but he chose to
show that he would not force his company upon her just then, when she
was in a visible rage, and instead of stopping to exchange more words
he passed the two ladies hat in hand, and bowing rather low, after his
manner, he went quietly downstairs.
Margaret watched him till he disappeared.
'I like that man,' she said, as if to herself, but audibly. 'I cannot
help it.'
Mrs. Rushmore was more than delighted, but had tact enough not to make
any answer to a speech which had probably not been meant for her ears.
'Perhaps,' she said, 'you would rather not go out just yet, my dear?'
Margaret was grateful for the suggestion, and they turned back into
their rooms.
Meanwhile Van Torp had reached the door of the hotel, and found Lady
Maud standing there with her parasol up, for the sun was streaming in.
'I was waiting for you,' she said simply, as soon as he reached her
side, and she stepped out into the street. 'I thought you would come
down, and I wanted to speak to you, for I did not get a chance last
night. They were both watching me, probably because they thought I was
ill, and I had to chatter like a magpie to keep up appearances.'
'You did it very well,' Van Torp said. 'If I had not seen your face at
the window when I got out of the automobile yesterday, I shouldn't
have guessed there was anything wrong.'
'But there is--something very wrong--something I can hardly bear to
think of, though I must, until I know the truth.'
They turned into the first deserted street they came to.
'I daresay I can give a guess at what it is,' Van Torp answered
gravely. 'I went to see him alone yesterday on purpose, before he
started, and I must say, if it wasn't for the beard I'd feel pretty
sure.'
'He had a beard when I married him, and it was like that--just like
that!'
Lady Maud's voice shook audibly, for she felt cold, even in the
sunshine.
'I didn't know,' Van Torp answered. 'That alters the case. If we're
not mistaken, what can I do to help you? Let's see. You only had that
one look at him, through the window, is that so?'
'Yes. But the window was open, and it's not high above the ground, and
my eyes are good. He took off his hat when he said good-bye to you,
and I saw his face as distinctly as I see yours. When you've been
married to a man'--she laughed harshly--'you cannot be easily mistaken
about him, when you're as near as that! That is the man I married. I'm
intimately convinced of it, but I must be quite sure. Do you
understand?'
'Of course. If he's really Leven, he's even a better actor than I used
to think he was. If he's not, the resemblance is just about the most
extraordinary thing! It's true I only saw Leven three or four times in
my life, but I saw him to look at him then, and the last time I did,
when he made the row in Hare Court, he was doing most of the talking,
so I remember his voice.'
'There's only one difficulty,' Lady Maud said. 'Some one else may have
been killed last June. It may even have been the pickpocket who had
stolen his pocket-book. Such things have happened, or do in books! But
this is certainly the man you met in New York and who sold you the
stone you gave me, is he not?'
'Oh, certainly. And that was at the end of July, and Leven was killed
late in June.'
'Yes. That only leaves a month for him to have been to Asia--that's
absurd.'
'Utterly, totally, and entirely impossible,' asseverated Mr. Van Torp.
'One of two things. Either this man is your husband, and if he is,
he's not the man who found the rubies in Asia. Or else, if he is that
man, he's not Leven. I wish that heathen girl had been here yesterday!
She could have told in a minute. She'd better have been here anyway
than cutting around the Mediterranean with that fellow Logotheti!'
'Yes,' Lady Maud answered gravely. 'But about myself--if Leven is
alive, what is my position--I mean--I don't really quite know where I
am, do I?'
'Anybody but you would have thought of marrying again already,'
observed Mr. Van Torp, looking up sideways to her eyes, for she was
taller than he. 'Then you'd really be in a bad fix, wouldn't you? The
Enoch Arden thing, I suppose it would be. But as it is, I don't see
that it makes much difference. The man's going under a false name, so
he doesn't mean to claim you as his wife, nor to try and get a divorce
again, as he did before. He's just going to be somebody else for his
own good, and he'll get married that way, maybe. That's his business,
not yours. I don't suppose you're going to get up in church and forbid
the banns, are you?'
'I would, like a shot!' said Lady Maud. 'So would you, I'm sure! Think
of the other woman!'
'That's so,' answered Van Torp without enthusiasm. 'However, we've got
to think about you and the present, and decide what we'll do. I
suppose the best thing is for me to put him off with some excuse, so
that you can come on the yacht.'
'Please do nothing of the sort!' cried Lady Maud.
'But I want you to come,' objected her friend.
'I mean to come. Do you think I am afraid to meet him?'
Van Torp looked at her in some surprise, and not without admiration.
'There isn't anybody like you, anyway,' he said quietly. 'But there's
going to be a circus on that ship if he's Leven,' he added. 'If he
makes a fuss, I'll read the Riot Act and lock him up.'
'Oh, no,' answered Lady Maud, who was used to Mr. Van Torp's familiar
vocabulary, 'why need there be any trouble? You've not told him I am
coming, you say. Very well. If he sees me suddenly after he has been
on board a little while, he'll certainly betray himself, and then I
shall be sure. Leven is a man of the world --"was" or "is"--God knows
which! But if it is he, and he doesn't want to be recognised, he'll
behave as if nothing had happened, after the first moment of surprise.
At least I shall be certain! You may wonder--I don't know myself,
Rufus--I wish you could help me!'
'I will, as far as I can.'
'No, you don't know what I mean! There's something in my life that I
never quite told you, I can't tell why not. There must be people who
know it besides my mother--I don't think my father ever did. Margaret
has an idea of it--I let fall a few words one day. In one way, you and
I have been so intimate for years --and yet----'
She stopped short, and the soft colour rose in her cheeks like a dawn.
Van Torp looked down at the pavement as he walked.
'See here,' he said in a low voice, 'you'd better not tell me. Maybe
you'll be sorry some day if you do.'
'It would be the first time,' she answered softly, 'and I've often
wished you knew everything. I mean to tell you now--just wait a
moment.'
They walked on; they were already in the outskirts of the dull little
town. Van Torp did not again raise his eyes to her face, for he knew
she would speak when she was ready. When she did, her voice was a
little muffled, and she looked straight before her as he was doing.
They were quite alone in the road now.
'When I was very young--nearly eleven years ago, in my first season--I
met a man I liked very much, and he liked me. We grew very, very fond
of each other. He was not much older than I, and had just joined the
army. We couldn't marry, because we had no money--my father had not
come into the title then, you know--but we promised each other that we
would wait. We waited, and no one knew, except, perhaps, my mother,
and she kept us from seeing each other as much as she could. Then came
the Boer war, and he was killed--killed in a wretched skirmish--not
even in a battle--buried somewhere on the Veldt--if I only knew where!
I read it in a despatch--just "killed"--nothing more. One doesn't die
of things, I suppose, and years passed, and I went out just the same,
and they wanted me to marry. You know how it is with a girl! I married
to get rid of myself--I married Leven because he was good-looking and
had money, and--I don't quite know why, but it seemed easier to marry
a foreigner than an Englishman. I suppose you cannot understand that!
It made all comparison impossible--perhaps that was it. When mine was
dead, I could never have taken another who could possibly have known
him, or who could be in the remotest degree like him.'
'I understand that quite well,' said Van Torp, as she paused.
'I'm glad, then, for it makes it easier to explain the rest. I don't
think I always did my best to be nice to Leven. You see, he soon grew
tired of me, and went astray after strange goddesses. Still, I might
have tried harder to keep him if I had cared what he did, but I was
faithful to him, in my own way, and it was much harder than you can
guess, or any one. Oh, it was not any living man that made it
hard--not that! It was the other. He came back--dead men do
sometimes--and he told me I was his, and not Leven's wife; and I
fought against that, just as if a man had made love to me in society.
It didn't seem honest and true to my real husband, in my thoughts, you
know, and in some things thoughts are everything. I fought with all my
might against that one, that dear one. I think that was the beginning
of my work--being sorry for other women who perhaps had tried to fight
too, and wondering whether I should do much better if my dead man came
back alive. Do you see? I'm telling you things I've hardly ever told
myself, let alone any one else.'
'Yes, I see. I didn't know any one could be as good as that.'
'You can guess the rest,' Lady Maud went on, not heeding what he said.
'When I believed that Leven was dead the fight was over, and I took my
dead man back, because I was really free. But now, if Leven is alive
after all, it must begin again. I ought to be brave and fight against
it; I must--but I can't, I can't! It's too hard, now! These two months
have been the happiest in my life since the day he was killed! How can
I go back again! And yet, if I cannot be an honest woman in my
thoughts I'm not an honest woman at all--I'm no better than if I
deserved to be divorced. I never believed in technical virtue.'
Van Torp had seen many sides of human nature, good and bad, but he had
never dreamed of anything like this, even in the clear depths of this
good woman's heart, and what he heard moved him. Men born with great
natures often have a tender side which the world does not dream of;
call it nervousness, call it degeneracy, call it hysterical who will;
it is there. While Lady Maud was finishing her poor little story in
broken phrases, with her heart quivering in her voice, Mr. Rufus Van
Torp's eyes became suddenly so very moist that he had to pass his hand
over them hastily lest a drop or two should run down upon his flat
cheeks. He hoped she would not notice it.
But she did, for at that moment she turned and looked at his face, and
her own eyes were dry, though they burned. She saw that his glistened,
and she looked at him in surprise.
'I'm sorry,' he said, apologising as if he had done something rude. 'I
can't help it.'
Their hands were hanging near together as they walked, and hers
touched his affectionately and gratefully, but she said nothing, and
they went on in silence for some time before she spoke again.
'You know everything now. I must be positively sure whether Leven is
alive or dead, for what I have got back in these last two months is my
whole life. A mere recognition at first sight and at ten yards is not
enough. It may be only a marvellous resemblance, for they say every
one has a "double" somewhere in the world.'
'They used to say, too, that if you met your "double" one of you would
die,' observed Van Torp. 'Those things are all stuff and nonsense, of
course. I was just thinking. Well,' he continued, dwelling on his
favourite monosyllable, 'if you decide to come on the yacht, and if
the man doesn't blow away, we shall know the truth in three or four
days from now, and that's a comfort. And even if he turns out to be
Leven, maybe we can manage something.'
Lady Maud chose not to ask what her friend thought he could 'manage';
for she had glanced at his face when he had spoken, and though it was
half turned away from her, she saw his expression, and it would have
scared a nervous person. She did not like him to be in that mood, and
was sorry that she had brought him to it.
But Mr. Van Torp, who was a strong man, and had seen more than one
affray in his ranching days, could not help thinking how uncommonly
easy it would be to pick up Count Kralinsky and drop him overboard on
a dark night next week, when the Lancashire Lass would be doing
twenty-two knots, and there might be a little weather about to drown
the splash.
CHAPTER XIII
The millionaire did things handsomely. He offered to motor his party
to Venice, and as Margaret declined, because motoring was bad for her
voice, he telegraphed for a comfortable special carriage, and took his
friends down by railway, managing everything alone, in some
unaccountable way, since the invaluable Stemp was already gone in
search of something for Mrs. Rushmore to eat; and they were all very
luxuriously comfortable.
Kralinsky was not on board the yacht when they came alongside at
sunset in two gondolas, following the steam-launch, which carried a
load of luggage and the two maids. The Primadonna's trunks and
hat-boxes towered above Mrs. Rushmore's, and Mrs. Rushmore's above
Lady Maud's modest belongings, as the Alps lift their heads above the
lower mountains, and the mountains look down upon the Italian
foot-hills; and Potts sat in one corner of the stern-sheets with
Margaret's jewel-case on her knee, and Justine, with Mrs. Rushmore's,
glared at her viciously from the other corner. For the fierce Justine
knew that she was going to be sea-sick on the yacht, and the meek
Potts never was, though she had crossed the ocean with the Diva in
rough weather.
Stemp led the way, and Mr. Van Torp took the three ladies to their
cabins: first, Mrs. Rushmore, who was surprised and delighted by the
rich and gay appearance of hers, for it was entirely decorated in pink
and gold, that combination being Stemp's favourite one. The brass
bedstead had pink silk curtains held back by broad gold ribbands;
there was a pink silk coverlet with a gold fringe; everything that
could be gold was gilt, and everything that could be pink was rosy,
including the carpet.
Mr. Van Torp looked at Stemp with approval, and Stemp acknowledged
unspoken praise with silent modesty.
'Beg pardon, madam,' he said, addressing Mrs. Rushmore, 'this is not
exactly the largest cabin on the yacht, but it is the one in which you
will find the least motion.'
'It's very sweet,' said the American lady. 'Very dainty, I'm sure.'
On the writing-table stood a tall gilt vase full of immense pink
roses, with stems nearer four feet long than three. Mrs. Rushmore
admired them very much.
'How did you know that I love roses above all other flowers?' she
asked. 'My dear Mr. Van Torp, you are a wizard, I'm sure!'
Lady Maud and Margaret had entered, and kept up a polite little chorus
of admiration; but they both felt uneasy as to what they might find in
their respective cabins, for Margaret hated pink, and Lady Maud
detested gilding, and neither of them was especially fond of roses.
They left Mrs. Rushmore very happy in her quarters and went on. Lady
Maud's turn came next, and she began to understand, when she saw a
quantity of sweet wood violets on her table, just loosened, in an old
Murano glass beaker.
'Thank you,' she said, bending to smell them. 'How kind of you!'
There was not a trace of gilding or pink silk. The cabin was panelled
and fitted in a rare natural wood of a creamy-white tint.
'Beg pardon, my lady,' said Stemp. 'This and Miss Donne's cabin
communicate by this door, and the door aft goes to the dressing-room.
Each cabin has one quite independent, and this bell rings the pantry,
my lady, and this one rings Miss Donne's maid's cabin, as I understand
that your ladyship has not brought her own maid with her.'
'Very nice,' said Lady Maud, smelling the violets again.
Mr. Van Torp looked at Stemp as he would have looked at a horse that
had turned out even better than he had expected. Stemp threw open the
door of communication to the cabin he had prepared for the Primadonna.
The two cabins occupied the whole beam of the vessel, excepting the
six-foot gangway on each side, and as she was one of the largest
yachts afloat at the time, there was no lack of room.
'Carnations, at this time of year!' cried Margaret, seeing half an
armful of her favourite dark red ones, in a silver wine-cooler before
the mirror. 'You really seem to know everything! Thank you so much!'
She buried her handsome face in the splendid flowers and drew in a
deep, warm breath, full of their sensuous perfume, the spicy scent of
a laden clove-tree under a tropical sun.
'Thank you again!' she said enthusiastically. 'Thank you for
everything, the delightful journey, and this lovely room, and the
carnations!'
She stood up suddenly to her height, in sheer pleasure, and held out
her hand to him. He pressed it quietly, and smiled.
'Do as you would be done by,' he said. 'That's the Company's rule.'
She laughed at the allusion to their agreement, of which Lady Maud
knew nothing, for they had determined to keep it secret for the
present.
Mr. Van Torp had not found an opportunity of speaking to Lady Maud
alone, but he wished her to know when Kralinsky might be expected.
'Stemp,' he said, before leaving the cabin, 'have you heard from the
Count?'
'Yes, sir. He got here this morning from Vienna in his motor, sir, and
sent his things with his man, and his compliments to you and the
ladies, and he will come on board in time for dinner. That was all, I
think, sir.'
  [Illustration: "She buried her handsome face in the splendid
   flowers."]
Lady Maud heard, and made a scarcely perceptible movement of the head
by way of thanks to her friend, while listening to Margaret's
enthusiastic praise of everything she saw. Mr. Van Torp and his man
departed, just as Potts appeared, accompanied by a very neat-looking
English stewardess in a smart white cap. Lady Maud was unusually
silent, but she smiled pleasantly at what Margaret said, and the
latter made up her mind to drown her anger against Logotheti, and at
the same time to be avenged on him, in an orgy of luxurious comfort,
sea-air, and sunshine. The capacity of a perfectly healthy and
successful singer for enjoying everything, from a halfpenny bun and a
drive in a hansom to a millionaire's yacht and the most expensive fat
of the land, or sea, has never been measured. And if they do have
terrible fits of temper now and then, who shall blame them? They are
always sorry for it, because it is bad for the voice.
Mr. Van Torp reached his quarters, and prepared to scrub and dress
comfortably after a week at Bayreuth and a railway journey.
'Stemp.'
'Yes, sir.'
'That was quite nicely done. You must have had a lively time.'
'Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. Hope everything is tolerably satisfactory
to you, sir.'
'Yes. Find anything good to eat? Chickens don't take gilding well, you
know--doesn't taste together. But I suppose you found something. Seen
the cook?'
'Yes, sir. I think things will be tolerable, sir, though this is not
London, I must say.'
Mr. Van Torp showed no surprise at the statement, and disappeared into
his bath-room, well pleased with himself and his man. But a moment
later he opened the door again and thrust out his square sandy head.
'Stemp, where have you put the Count? Far from here? I don't want him
near me.'
'Last cabin forward on the port side, sir, next to the smoking-room.
Very good cabin, sir.'
'Whereabouts is port, right or left?'
'Left-hand side of the vessel, sir,' answered Stemp, who had been on
many yachts. 'There are ten more cabins empty, sir, between large and
small, if you should think of asking any ladies and gentlemen to join
at another point, sir.'
'May pick up a couple somewhere. Can't tell yet.' And Mr. Van Torp
disappeared definitely.
Lady Maud did not begin to dress at once, as there was plenty of time
before dinner; she left the stewardess to unpack her things, and came
out upon the six-foot gangway outside her cabin door to breathe the
air, for it was warm. The city lay half a mile away in the after-glow
of the sunset. The water was very green that evening, as it sometimes
is in the Lagoons, though not always, and it was shaded off through
many opalescent tints to heliotrope; then it was suddenly black below
the steps of the Piazzetta and the Ducal Palace. Within the mysterious
canal to the right she could make out the Bridge of Sighs, and there
was the Ponte della Paglia, and the long line of irregular buildings
to the eastward of the Prisons, as far as the Public Gardens. To the
left there was the wide mouth of the Grand Canal, the Salute and the
Custom-House, and the broad opening of the Giudecca. It was familiar
to her, for she had seen it several times. She missed the Campanile,
which she had been made to climb by an energetic governess when she
was twelve years old, but all the rest was there and unchanged, a
dream of evening colour, an Eastern city rising out of an enchanted
water, under an Italian sky.
At any other time she would have enjoyed the sight almost without a
thought, as she enjoyed everything that seemed to her beautiful or
even pretty, though she had no pretensions to cultivated artistic
taste or knowledge. But now she felt none of that healthy pleasure
which a lovely sight naturally gave her. She was at a crisis of her
life, and the exquisite evening scene was the battlefield of a coming
struggle, with herself, or with another, she hardly knew. In half an
hour, or in an hour, at most, she was to sit at table with a man she
fully believed to be the husband for whom she had been wearing
mourning, out of mere decency, but with the profound inward
satisfaction of being free.
She was brave, and could try to think of what was before her if it
turned out that she was not mistaken, and she could attempt to
understand what had happened. She had already come to the conclusion
that if Kralinsky was really Leven, the latter had seized the
opportunity offered him by his own supposed death to disappear from
St. Petersburg, and had taken another name. Leven had been a ruined
man when he had tried to divorce her; when he died, or disappeared, he
left nothing but debts, which were extinguished with him, for no one
attempted to make his widow responsible for them, since there was no
estate and she had no fortune beyond the allowance her father made
her. Lord Creedmore was far from being a rich peer, too, and what he
gave her was not much, although it would more than suffice for her
simple wants, now that she intended to live with him again.
But if Leven had not been killed and had turned into Kralinsky, he now
had plenty of ready money, though it was not easy to guess how he had
obtained possession of a quantity of valuable Asiatic rubies within
the few weeks that had elapsed between his supposed destruction by the
bomb and the date of Van Torp's transaction with him in New York. That
was a mystery. So was his possible acquaintance, or connexion, with
the Eastern girl who was looking for him, if there was a shadow of
truth in Logotheti's story. Lady Maud did not believe there was, and
she felt morally sure that the tale had evolved itself out of the
Greek's fertile brain, as a fantastic explanation of his atrocious
conduct.
While she was thinking over these matters and rehearsing in her
thoughts the scene that was before her, she saw a gondola making
straight for the yacht across the fast fading green of the lagoon that
lay between the vessel and the Piazzetta. It came nearer, and she drew
back from the rail against her cabin door, under the shadow of the
promenade deck, which extended over the gangway and was supported by
stanchions, as on an ocean liner. The Lancashire Lass, with her
single huge yellow funnel, her one short signal mast, her
turret-shaped wheel-house, and her generally business-like appearance,
looked more like a cross between a fast modern cruiser and an ocean
'greyhound' than like a private yacht. She even had a couple of
quick-firing guns mounted just above her rail.
Lady Maud looked at the gondola, and as it came still nearer, she saw
that it brought only one passenger, and that he had a fair beard. She
quietly opened her cabin door, and went in to dress for dinner.
Meanwhile Mr. Van Torp had completed his toilet, and was rather
surprised to find himself magnificently arrayed in a dark-blue
dinner-jacket, with perfectly new gilt buttons, and an unfamiliar
feeling about the pockets. He had belonged to a yacht club for years,
because it seemed to be expected of him, and Stemp and the tailor had
thought fit that he should possess the proper things for a yachtsman.
'Stemp,' he said, 'is this the correct thing? I suppose you know.'
'Yes, sir. Very smart indeed, sir. White caps are usually worn by
yachting gentlemen in the Mediterranean, sir.' Stemp offered him the
cap in question, resplendent with a new enamelled badge. 'Beg pardon,
sir, but as to caps, most gentlemen lift them to ladies, just like
hats, sir, but the captain and the officers touch theirs. His Grace
always lifted his cap, sir.'
'I guess that'll be all right,' answered Mr. Van Torp, trying on the
cap. 'Send the captain to my study, Stemp, and find out about when the
ladies will be ready for dinner.'
Stemp disappeared, and in a few moments pink-faced Captain Brown
appeared, quiet, round, and smart.
'I suppose you're ready at any moment, Captain?' inquired the
millionaire.
'Yes, sir. The pilot is on board, and the gentleman you expected is
just coming alongside.'
'Oh, he is, is he?'
Mr. Van Torp evidently expected no answer to his favourite form of
question when he was thinking over what had just been said; and the
captain was silent.
'Then you can start now,' said the owner, after a moment's thought.
'Where are we bound, sir?'
'Oh, well, I don't know. I wanted to say a few words about that,
Captain. Do you happen to know anything about a yacht called the
Erinna, belonging to a Mr. Logotheti, a Greek gentleman who lives in
Paris?'
'Yes, sir,' answered Captain Brown, for it was a part of his business
to read the yachting news. 'She was at Cowes when we sailed. She was
reported the other day from Gibraltar as having entered the
Mediterranean after taking fresh provisions, owner and party on board.
There is no further word of her.'
'Well,' said Mr. Van Torp, 'I have an idea she's gone to Naples, but I
want you to find her right away wherever she is, owner and party on
board. That's all, Captain. If you happen to see her anywhere, you
just come and tell me if I'm alone, and if I'm not, why send one of
your young men to say you want to know something,--anything you happen
to think of, and I'll come to your room and tell you what to do. See?
That's all, and now let's start, please.'
'All right, sir.'
So Captain Brown went off with his instructions, and in a few moments
his owner heard the distant sound of the chain coming in over the most
noiseless of modern patent steam capstans; and the side-lights and
masthead and stern lights shone out as the anchor light went down, and
the twin screws began to turn over slowly, well below the water; and
the Lancashire Lass was under weigh, with the captain, the pilot,
and the two junior officers all in a row on the bridge, while the
chief mate was seeing the anchor got inboard and stowed. But while the
captain was silently looking ahead into the warm dusk and listening to
the orders the pilot gave for the wheel in good English, but with a
marvellous Venetian accent, he was also considering how he might most
quickly find the Erinna, and he reflected that it would be an easier
task if he knew a little more definitely where she was. He was not at
all disturbed by the orders he had received, however, and was only
anxious to get all the speed he could out of his vessel as far as the
Straits of Messina, through which the yacht he was to find would
almost certainly pass, in preference to the Malta Channel, if she were
going to Greece and the East. If she kept to the waters west of Italy,
it would not be so very hard to hear of her, as the coast is dotted
with excellent marine signal stations, and official information as to
the movements of yachts is easily obtained.
When the party assembled in the deck saloon for dinner, Lady Maud was
missing. Stemp, who did not intend that his master should dine
without his personal attention, no matter how much the chief steward
might object to his presence, approached Mr. Van Torp and whispered
something. Lady Maud begged that the party would sit down without her,
and she would join them in a moment.
So they took their places, and the vacant one was on the owner's
right, between him and the Primadonna.
'You see,' said Mr. Van Torp, explaining to Mrs. Rushmore, which was
wholly unnecessary, 'we are Americans, and this ship is America, so
the English guest goes first.'
But Mrs. Rushmore knew these things, for she was used to handling
lions in numbers; and the little lions and the middle-sized ones are
very particular about their places at table, but the great big ones do
not care 'one dingle Sam,' as Mr. Van Torp would have elegantly
expressed their indifference. For he was a great big lion himself.
'Did you ever meet Lady Maud?' he inquired, speaking to Kralinsky.
'Which Lady Maud?' asked the foreigner in his rather oily voice.
'There are several.'
'Countess Leven, who was Lady Maud Foxwell,' explained Mrs. Rushmore.
Kralinsky turned quietly to her, his single eyeglass fixed and
glittering.
'No,' he answered. 'I knew poor Leven well, but I was never introduced
to his wife. I have heard that she is very beautiful.'
'You say you knew the late Count Leven?' observed Mrs. Rushmore, with
an encouraging and interrogatory smile.
'Intimately,' answered Kralinsky with perfect self-possession. 'We
were in the same regiment in the Caucasus. I daresay you remember that
he began life as a cavalry officer and then entered the diplomacy.
Gifted man, very,' the Russian added in a thoughtful tone, 'but no
balance! It seems to me that I have heard he did not treat his wife
