Then they sat down, and there was no constraint, but a good deal of
talking; and, strangely, it was Osmond who led it. He did not touch upon
things of wider interest than his own garden ground, where he was at
home. He had pleasant chronicles of the work to give grannie, and
MacLeod took a genial interest. Only Peter sat, wide-eyed at the turn
things were taking, and Rose grew paler and left her plate untouched.
She did not know whether it was joy that moved her, or grief at parting
with him. Only the morning seemed like no other morning. When they rose
from the table, Osmond turned at once to MacLeod.
"May I see you for a minute or two?" he asked. "We'll go into the west
room, grannie."
While Peter started forward, as if to help or hinder as the case might
be when he understood it, Osmond had led the way, still with the air of
being master of the house, and Rose stood with downcast eyes, as if
miserably conscious that the interview would concern her. Inside the
west room, cool in the morning, and with a restful bareness about it, a
retreat where people went to sleep or read, Osmond turned at once to the
man whom, at that moment, he delighted in as a worthy foe. Osmond had
never known before the keen, salt taste of victory. All his triumphs up
to this time had been as slow as the growth of a tree that recovers
itself after lopped branches. Now he felt the anticipation of combat.
"We needn't sit down," he said rapidly, yet with self-possession. He
looked taller, even, MacLeod thought with wonder. His dark eyes were
full of fire. "I love your daughter," said Osmond, in a full, steady
voice. He chose the words the poets had taught him to use simply, and
also, perhaps, the novels he had been reading since he had known Rose.
"My dear fellow!" cried MacLeod expansively. And then, remembering the
peculiar circumstances of the case, "I'm sorry, devilish sorry for you."
Osmond smiled. He felt capable, if there were no other way of doing it,
of wresting the lady's fate from evil chances with his hands. Yet he
liked MacLeod to resist. It made the fight more splendid.
"She must not go back with you," he said. "You are not to insist on it.
Don't insist. That will save us all trouble."
MacLeod had gathered himself together. He put his hand in his pocket and
meditatively brought out his pipe, fingering the case with an absent and
lingering interest, as if he felt the call to a lost rite.
"My dear fellow," he said again, "this is too bad. I'm sorry."
"Rose will remain here," said Osmond briefly. "My grandmother will take
the kindest care of her."
"But I can't allow it, you know," said the father, still with tolerance.
"Rose is due in Paris. We're both due there. It's very good of you, very
hospitable and all that,--but you mustn't carry this Lochinvar business
too far. It's too rapid a world, you know. I'm too busy, my dear fellow.
That's the truth."
Osmond stood gazing at him reflectively, not in doubt or hesitation, but
because he liked the look of so big an animal, and considering that it
would be charming to see the creature yield. Osmond had not sharpened
his weapons or even decided what they were. He only knew MacLeod must
bend, and that there was in himself a big, even an invincible force to
make him.
"Rose is not going," he said quietly.
Then MacLeod laughed. The morning was hurrying by and this vaporing was
a hindrance to be shuffled off. "You say you love my daughter?" he
remarked, with a veiled meaning in the tone. "What then? You don't
propose to marry her?" The tone said further, "You don't tell me you
propose to marry anybody?"
"I only said I loved her," returned Osmond simply. "I thought it would
be well for you to know that. It seemed fairer."
MacLeod smiled again, as if he were smiling down on something. Osmond
opened the door, knowing where he should find her. She was there at the
end of the hall, sitting in one of the high-backed chairs, her hands in
her lap, her head bent sweetly as she listened. She was pale, and there
was terror in her face. As Osmond read that, his own passion quieted,
and he spoke with perfect gentleness:--
"Rose, will you come here?"
She obeyed at once, and they three were in the room together and Osmond
had closed the door. He put out his hand to her, and without hesitation
she gave him hers.
"Rose," he said, "I have been telling your father you will not go back
with him."
Her eyes dilated. Her lips parted eagerly.
"I have said I would," she began; but he forestalled her.
"I have forbidden it, Rose. I have told him I forbid it."
His touch on her hand seemed to be leading her, drawing her into his own
breast. They looked at each other, and both forgot the other presence in
the room. The color came back slowly to her cheeks, and Osmond's eyes
filled with tears.
"Answer, dear," he said, with the same gentleness. "Let me hear you
answer."
"Very well," she returned, like a gentle child. "Shall I go now,
Osmond?"
He led her to the door, opened it, and closed it after her. Then he
glanced at his adversary. MacLeod had sunk into a chair and was sitting
astride it, his chin bowed upon its back. He looked terror-stricken. One
hand held a little box, and he was tendering it to Osmond.
"Open it," he gasped. "Crush one in your handkerchief. Let me smell it."
Osmond ignorantly but deftly did it, and held the handkerchief to
MacLeod's face. MacLeod breathed at it greedily. He lifted his left hand
as if it were half useless to him. "Rub it," he said savagely. "Wring it
off. Such pain! my God, such pain!"
In a moment more the attack was over, and he looked like an old man,
inexplicably ravaged. Osmond's question sprang impetuously.
"Is it--excitement?"
MacLeod smiled a little and moistened his lips.
"You think you did it?" he suggested. "No. You didn't do it. It
comes--of itself--like a thief in the night, like the very devil.
Nobody's to know it. Understand that."
"Then you need her with you!" Osmond broke out, in a fresh
understanding.
"Need her? need Rose? Get that out of your mind. The world is full of
women. She'll go back with me, but not because I need her."
He walked past Osmond and out through the empty hall, and slowly, but
still erect, to the driveway and the road. Osmond stood watching him. He
saw him straighten more and more, and assume his wonted carriage though
without its buoyancy. Osmond followed for a little distance, but when
MacLeod turned to look at him and then went on again, he stepped over
the wall and crossed the lot to his own plantation. MacLeod, he knew,
was going to Electra's for a last word, and for himself, he had struck
his one sharp, quick blow for Rose. She should have an interval alone,
to make her abiding decision calmly, and when the moment came for
MacLeod's going, Osmond would be there again, to hearten her.
But MacLeod, when Osmond had really turned aside, halted more and more.
At last he was sick with fear of that enemy inside his breast. There was
no moment now, he knew, when he might not expect it, tearing away at the
delicate harmonies within the gates of life. What would happen when the
pain grew fiercer still? The enemy would let in that other he refused to
think upon, though even that was more tolerable than having this evil
creature claw at him when men could see him cringe. And as life itself
is death when it is once sapped of power, he threw up his head and
strode on faster. One step with the old vigor and abandon--and there it
was again.
XXVI
Later that same morning, Peter was hurrying along the road, for the
carriage was due and MacLeod had not returned. Peter was not more than
reasonably sorry to lose his chief, because he meant to follow soon. He
had the excited sense of being ready for flight, of great freedom before
him and strength in his wings, and of leaving Osmond and grannie with
regret, yet happily, for something untried and as wonderful as youth. He
ran along the road, hat in hand, in love with the morning breeze, and
Electra met him. She looked wan, he saw, and with an incredulous pang,
he questioned whether she could be moved by their separation. But he was
glad of a definite and hurried question to ask.
"Where is MacLeod?"
A look like hope flashed into her face. She stopped and turned half
about, as if for instant flight back to the house.
"Was he coming to me?" she asked breathlessly.
"We thought he might be there."
"Did he say he was coming?" Her eagerness looked like hunger for a
desired good, slipping, by some chance, away from her.
"No! no! he may have gone to the plantation. I'll run down there and
find him."
He hurried on, and Electra, watching his light, easy lopes, wished she,
too, were a man and running to find Markham MacLeod.
At the pasture-bars, in a bed of roadside fern, Peter found him. MacLeod
lay majestically, stretched at length, upon his side, as if some one had
disposed him in the attitude of sleep. Peter knew. Yet he stooped and
touched one of the beautifully shaped hands with his finger. He stood
there a long time, it seemed to him, looking not at the figure at his
feet, but off into the morning sky, and MacLeod was not in his mind:
only Osmond and what Osmond had said about the lust for fight. Osmond
seemed to fill the world. He had wished to kill the man, but God instead
had killed him. Yet the other thing might have been. Peter wondered that
he had not realized what his brother was to him, and again that he had
too often foregone Osmond's companionship, this summer of their reunion,
for lesser loyalties. He comprehended him, at the moment, with an
exaggerated passion that was pain: a gigantic figure, all sacrifice, all
patient truthfulness, and, in its own bounded life, as much to be loved
and protected as a woman, and yet untrained and ready for a savage deed.
And all the time Electra was advancing rapidly toward him on the road,
aimlessly, but, as she afterwards believed, drawn by some premonition of
what she was to find. Her approach broke Peter's fearful vision. She was
like a figure walking into his dream, and he hurried toward her,
remembering what she must not see. He motioned to her harshly with his
hand.
"Go back!" he called.
But Electra came inevitably on. Then Peter placed himself before her.
"Something has happened," he said quietly, while she looked him in the
face. "Go home."
But now she was gazing past him, and the figure in the bracken caught
her sight. With a low cry, the inarticulate sound that throws suffering
woman back to her kinship with the mother brute, she ran past him and
stooped over MacLeod; Peter, dull with feeling, thought she tried to
raise his head, and failing that, she took the hand and nursed it on her
bosom. Peter judged apathetically that he had never really known
Electra; she looked now like a woman numb with grief over a dead child.
Then he waked himself out of his maze.
"Don't!" he heard himself calling. "People will come."
"Who will come?" she returned sharply, as if she challenged them all to
show why this should not be her dead. Then she wakened. "Go!" she cried.
"Get help. It can't be true."
"I will call the men. We can get him home among us."
He ran over the wall and on to the field where men were hoeing. When
they had dropped their work and followed him, they found Electra sitting
there by the roadside, as if she were the one mourner over the dead, and
she did not rise until they stooped to lift him, and arranged how he
should be carried. Then she said to Peter, again as if it were her
right,--
"Have him taken to my house."
Peter stared at her, but he remembered Rose.
"That will be better," he said; and added, "but who will tell her?"
"His daughter?" said Electra, in her clear tone. "I will tell her. But
there is a great deal to do before that. She can wait."
So they walked along the road like a strange funeral procession, Electra
in front, as if she had a right to lead. She turned in at her own gate,
and they followed, and she walked on up the steps and into the library,
where they laid him down. Madam Fulton and Billy Stark had gone for a
drive, and the house, in its morning order, looked as if it had been
prepared for the solemnity of this entrance. Now Electra's methodical
capacity came into play. She sent one man for the doctor and another to
the kitchen for hot water and for brandy. But when they were hurriedly
dispersed, she turned to Peter and said, with a heart-breaking quiet,--
"And yet, he is dead!"
She sat down upon the floor beside the couch and laid her head on the
dead man's heart. Peter knew it was to listen for a flutter there, but
with his sensitive apprehension of all emotion, he felt also that she
was glad to put her head upon MacLeod's breast. He was conscious of
being useless in his inactivity, but he could only stand and stare down
at them, the dead man and the mourning woman. Presently Electra got up
and stood, dry-eyed, and looked at him.
"He was coming to me," she said, in awe at the loneliness of the event.
"I couldn't sleep last night. I wish I had known a little more. Instead
of thinking about him, I could have met him. I could have been with
him."
Peter shuddered.
"I am glad you were not with him."
Electra was not listening. She had placed her hand on the hair of the
fallen man, tenderly and yet with reverence.
"He is splendid, Peter, isn't he?" she said, as if she wondered at life
and its fleeting forms. "He looks like a god, sleeping." Some echo of
her words came back to her, and she felt a momentary pleasure at their
sound. Then, very shortly it seemed, men came, the doctor and others who
had authority, and Electra was turned out of the room.
"Go upstairs," Peter besought her.
But she stepped out, bare-headed, into the air.
"No," she answered, "I am going to tell his daughter."
"No!" Suddenly Peter remembered how little she was fitted to be a kindly
messenger. "No, Electra. I will go."
Electra looked at him in a calm surprise.
"He would wish it," she said. "He would wish me to do everything." And
she was gone.
Peter went back into the room, where there were quick voices and
peremptory demands. Markham MacLeod was being interrogated in a way that
had never befallen him before. His body was being asked to bear witness
of the fashion by which it had come to its dumb estate, wherein it could
not compel others, but was most ruthlessly at their will.
Rose, at grannie's knee, in a mute gratitude that now she was to stay
here, because it had been wonderfully decreed, saw Electra coming up the
walk. She ran to meet her light-heartedly; in her flooding delight it
seemed to her as if even Electra might acquiesce in her reprieve.
At the foot of the steps they met, Rose all pleadingness, as if again
she begged Electra to love her. But Electra delivered her news
straightway. She felt like nothing but the messenger of MacLeod.
"He is dead," she said, with the utmost quietude.
Rose stared at her.
"Who is dead?" she managed to ask.
"Markham MacLeod."
Rose leaned forward and gazed still in her face. She was well convinced
that this look was real: a look of hopeless grief, though the words were
so fantastic.
"Electra," she said gently, and even put out a hand and touched her on
the arm. "Electra! What is it?"
"I have told you," said Electra, "he is dead. We found him in the ferns,
Peter and I. He is at my house. We thought you ought to know it."
"Come!" said Rose. She seized her hand, and Electra pulled it away
again, quietly, and yet as if it had no business in that hasty grasp.
"Let me go home with you."
"If you wish," said Electra. "I suppose you have a right to be there.
They may want you." And in silence they hurried down the path together
and out into the road. At Electra's own gate, she turned to Rose.
"It is strange, isn't it?" she said.
"What, Electra?"
"That he could die."
"Electra, he has not died. No one has died." Rose spoke gently, knowing
that in some way the other woman had been shocked and her reason shaken.
"Come into the house and we'll find Peter."
But at the moment Peter and the doctor appeared together in the doorway,
and the doctor turned to give orders to a servant in the hall. Peter saw
them and came quickly down to them. It was apparent to Rose that
something had happened.
"Tell her, Peter," said Electra, in some impatience. "She won't believe
me. Tell her he is dead."
Peter and Rose stood looking at each other, she questioning and he in
sad assent. Then there crept upon her face a look that was the companion
to Electra's. The color faded, her eyes widened.
"My father?" she breathed, and Peter nodded.
"Yes," said Electra, as if she were astonished at them both and their
dull wits, "Markham MacLeod is dead."
That evening grannie was in her own room, and Peter and Rose, below,
talked intermittently of that strange morning.
"It is incredible, Peter, isn't it," she began, "for him to die like
this?"
He nodded.
"I expected violence," he said. "We all expected it."
"Isn't it strange, too, that I can't feel grief! I'm neither glad nor
sorry. I feel very still."
"The whole world will feel grief," said Peter loyally.
"Yes, but to me--Peter, it is just as if he were not a man, not
something I had loved, but a thing that was great to look at and had no
soul. It was like a tree falling, or a huge rock undermined. Don't you
see? As if it were the natural thing, and there was no other way
possible."
She began to feel the inexorability of great revenges, and to see that
when a soul has for a long time denied us answer in our needs, we refuse
to believe that it can speak. MacLeod had grown to be a beautiful
spectacle of the universe, full of natural health and power. Now that he
had fallen, there was nothing left. She had no vestige to remember of
those responses in the dim reaches of being when one calls and another
answers: homely loyalties, sweet kindnesses, even overlaid by later
pain. He had lived what he called the natural life, and its breath had
failed him and he was no more. Some time, she knew, in this dull
brooding, she might try to whip herself up into an expected grief; but
now, in the bare honesty of the moment, she accepted the event as it
was.
"Osmond has been great," said Peter.
She started back to life.
"What has he done?"
"Everything. He's been Electra's right-hand man. I'll run down to see
him a minute presently."
He hoped Rose would send some word of appreciative thanks. Old Osmond,
he knew, would like it. But she got up and gave him her hand, in her
grave affectionate way, and said good-night. She remembered how Osmond
and her father had met in contest, and she knew Osmond would not seek
her until Markham MacLeod was wholly gone.
XXVII
Peter met his brother midway in the field, and waited for him.
"I'll go with you," he said.
"No," said Osmond, "I'm not going now. Come back to the shack."
"You're a regular night-owl," said Peter, as they turned. "When I don't
find you after dark, I know you're in the woods, prowling. What makes
you?"
"It's a good place to think things out,--and swear over 'em."
"What things, old man? You know I wouldn't tell. Nothing would tempt me
to."
Osmond laughed a little.
"If you care so much as that, I'll tell you," he said, with a sudden
harshness for himself in retrospect. "I go into the woods to think about
life, my life, my difference from other fellows."
They sat down on the bench at the door, and a whippoorwill, calling,
made the distance lonely. Peter had no answer for the truth he had
evoked. It was too harsh. Only a woman could have met it, and that with
kisses, not with words.
"Do you know," he said abruptly, "what all this makes me want?--this
horrible excitement?"
"No, boy."
"It makes me want to paint. I want to paint everything I see: Markham
MacLeod lying there in that bed of fern, Rose with all the life washed
out of her, and you now, your face coming out of the dark. Everything's
been unreal to me since it happened--except paint--and you."
"Poor old chap!" said Osmond. But he fled on from that concurrent
sympathy to a dearer plea. "Paint, Pete," he urged. "Let all the rest
go. Let MacLeod die. But you paint."
Peter was looking at him now, fascinated. The pale face out of the dark
was all one glowing life. Peter wondered at him, his strength, his
beauty. Again he felt as he had that morning, as if he had never known
his brother, and as if it would pay for any pains to comprehend that
pathetic and yet adventurous soul. Peter was more than half woman, with
his quick perception of what went on in other minds. He understood, at
that moment, that the great adventure of all is life itself: not, as it
seemed to him, to paint, to love, but to taste all things with this
richness that was beginning to be Osmond's, this hunger for the
forbidden, even, so it was hunger. Osmond had begun to recognize his own
nature, and for the first time his brother began to recognize him.
"Osmond," he said, in a wistful eagerness, very beguiling, "whatever you
did, I should believe in it."
Osmond looked at him with that faint sweet smile upon his face, and his
eyes offered hints of ineffable meanings.
"Would you, boy?" he asked.
Peter went on. It was almost like a woman's confession of her love.
"Osmond, you say you think about your life when you are alone. What do
you think?"
"I think it is full of passions as an egg is of meat. They have been
growing while I ignored them. I saw them marching before me and round
and round me. They thought they were my masters."
"What then?"
Osmond remembered how the morning seemed when he met Rose in the
sunlight, and touched her hand.
"Then," he said gravely, "I was their master. That's all."
"Oh," said Peter exultingly, "you'd be the master in the end. You're
great!"
"Pete," said Osmond suddenly, "is this death coming?"
"Is what death?"
"It's too queer for life."
"To sit here talking like this?"
"No, not that exactly, but the sense of things to come. It seems as if
life wasn't going to be the same again, and nothing was quite big enough
to come after things as they've been lately,--but death, and that's only
big enough because it's unknown."
"What will come?" asked Peter. He felt at once like a little boy, half
afraid, and afraid of his fear, yet with his brother to uphold him.
"We won't go to bed to-night, will we? We'll sit here, even if we hold
our tongues. I can't go to bed."
They did sit there for an hour or so. Peter spoke.
"What are you thinking, old man?"
"Of Rose."
It was not strange to Peter to hear him speak of her familiarly. He
returned,--
"I've been thinking of her, too."
XXVIII
The deed was over. The great emotional wave that mounted, in Europe and
America, at the death of Markham MacLeod, threw its spray upon this
quiet shore. Letters came from his disciples and his lovers, and Rose,
wondering as she read them, answered in a patient duty. If a great man
is one who moves things, then her father had been great. He was bigger
to her now than when she feared him. Though there were mutterings afar
of what must come now Markham MacLeod was dead, this country spot took
on its old tranquillity. Peter sat in the garden and painted. He seemed
to think of nothing else. Rose was too busy to sit, and he began a
portrait of grannie; then his only communication with the world seemed
to be his flashing glance at her and at his canvas. Osmond, in the
plantation, bent his back and worked with the men, and no one knew what
he thought. To Peter he was gravely kind, and Rose, with a growing
emotion that seemed to her likely to become terror in the end, realized
that he had not sought her.
One morning while Peter was in the garden smoking, before he called
grannie to her chair again, and Rose was at the library table answering
letters, Madam Fulton appeared at the door.
"Where's Bessie Grant?" she asked.
Rose was at once on her feet and came forward to give her a chair,
relieve her of her parasol, and stand beside her in a deferential
waiting that, for some reason, never displeased this pulsating age with
its memory ever upon the habitudes of youth.
"Where's Bessie Grant?"
"She will be in presently. Peter is painting her."
The old lady lay back in the chair and gazed at her absently, as if she
merely included her in a general picture of life. Madam Fulton had
changed. Her eyes were wistful, and she looked very frail.
"Billy Stark sails on Saturday," she volunteered, as if it were the one
thing in her mind.
Grannie came in at the moment, and laid a kindly hand on her old
friend's shoulder. Rose went back to her chair, and left them to their
talk, while she put up her papers before quitting the room. Madam Fulton
looked at grannie now.
"You've had your morning coffee, haven't you?" asked grannie, because
she could think of nothing else to offer.
"Yes, I've had coffee, and I've had cereals. Electra is looking after me
with that kind of an air, you know, as if I were a rockbound duty. My
soul! If it wasn't for Billy Stark, I should die."
"Poor Electra!" said grannie softly.
"Now what do you want to call her that for? Why is she 'poor Electra'
because she chooses to go round like a high priestess strapping me down
on altars and pouring libations of cereals and cream? I could stand it
if her heart was in it, but it's miles away. And Billy Stark is going."
Grannie only patted her hand.
"Well, well!" said she. "It's been nice to have him here."
"It's been heaven. It's the only heaven I shall ever know."
"We get a little mite of it here every once and a while," said grannie.
"Don't you think so?"
"No, except when Billy Stark comes,--and he won't come again. Electra's
going, too."
"Abroad?"
"Yes. She's going abroad. At once, it seems. Rose MacLeod!"
Rose looked up from her papers.
"What was it about your father that put the devil into people?"
Rose answered with an unsmiling candor.
"I don't know, Madam Fulton."
"But you know what I mean?"
"He had great personal power."
"You are not in mourning for him?" She had been considering the girl's
dress and its fluttering ribbons.
Rose returned with dignity,--
"I am not in mourning."
"Well, Electra is. She hasn't put on black, but it's all over her. She's
perfectly shameless. I asked her this morning why she was hurrying her
sailing, and she said it was because he would wish it. There were things
to do for him."
"That he would wish it?"
"Your father. Don't you see? She's got an idea that she's his earthly
vicegerent, and there's some majestic poppycock about the Brotherhood. I
can't understand it, and I don't want to. All I know is, she's mad.
Bessie Grant, when I told the Lord I wanted things to happen, I didn't
mean this kind, and He knew it perfectly well."
Rose had risen and stood in grave attention.
"Oh, she mustn't do that," she said earnestly. "I must tell her."
"Well, go and tell her, then," said the old lady, turning back to Mrs.
Grant. "If you can make her listen, you'll do more than I can. I ought
to chaperon her, though you might as well chaperon the Lion of Lucerne.
Bessie!" And then as Rose left the room, she bent forward, and leaned
her head on grannie's breast. "Bessie," she repeated, "it's a miserable
world."
To grannie all ages were as one. The old and the young were alike
defenseless, when they were in trouble, and she put her arms about the
frail creature and held her warmly.
"Hush, dear!" she said, and forgot this was not one of her own children.
"Mother's sorry." Then they both smiled a little, but grannie went on:
"You must come right here, you know. Electra will be gone, and Billy,
and you don't want to carry on the house alone. You come here, dear, and
stay with me."
"Could I?" Madam Fulton lifted her tear-wet face. "If I could stay here
a little while, maybe I might pull myself together. I don't know how to
do it, Bessie. I don't know how to live. I never did."
Rose had run over to the other house in an unreasoning haste. Electra
was in the library, putting her desk in order. Her firm white hands were
busy, assorting and arranging. She turned her head as Rose came in, and,
without rising, spoke to her collectedly and bade her be seated. She was
older, Rose thought; she looked even like a different woman, not merely
one whom middle age had overtaken. Purpose sat on her brow, and her eyes
looked straight at you, as if she bade you tell your business and be
gone. The one effect upon Rose was to make her sorry, infinitely sorry
for her. Electra had broken the globe of her hopes upon a rock, and she
was not even going to walk on and leave the shards forgotten there. Rose
spoke at once, to use her courage while she felt it hot.
"Madam Fulton tells me you are going abroad."
"Yes. I sail next week."
"Is it with any purpose? Electra, did my father make you love him?"
Electra faced her. Color flowed into her cheeks. Her eyes glowed beyond
any promise they had ever given.
"I am glad you ask me that," she said, and her full tone was strangely
unlike the even consonance of the old Electra's voice. At last she
forgot how she did things or why. Life was sweeping her along. "He never
made me love him. It was ordained. It was like nothing else on earth."
Rose felt cold with the sad knowledge of it.
"Yes," she said, "he had great power over people."
A smile stole upon Electra's lips.
"We had planned it all," she said. "I was to go to Paris. I was to work
with him. Now that he is gone, I must carry on the work for both of us."
Rose regarded her with a wistful compassion, not knowing how much she
might help her, and yet wishing to offer all she had.
"Electra," she said, "what do you mean by carrying on the work?"
"His work, the Brotherhood."
"But, dear child, you would have to submit yourself for years and years
to all sorts of tests before you would be trusted. I don't even know
whether it won't fall apart, now he has gone. It may do that and
reorganize in a different form. And how would you find it? You think of
it as a definite body with headquarters anybody can reach. Why, Electra,
you might stay a dozen years in Paris and not put your finger on it."
Still Electra turned to her that look of rapt allegiance. She heard
apparently, yet the words made no impression on her fixed resolve. Now
she spoke, and rather sweetly. All the tones of her voice, all her
looks, had a reminiscent value, as if they were echoes from her lost
relation with him.
"He told me where to write," she said, as if she were satisfied with
that. "I shall go there."
"I know, the address for his letters. But he was never there. Now that
he is gone, the place will be for other uses. Everything connected with
the Brotherhood keeps fluctuating, changing. There would be no safety
otherwise."
Electra was looking at her in that removed, patient way that made
another woman of her. It was almost like a mother who has cares to think
of and can spare no time from them for alien presences.
"I must go," she said again. "He would wish it."
Rose now had her moment of delay. Her mind went back over that weary
road, to the past the present had so illumined for her. It tired her to
think the trouble ever attendant on her father's life was to go on,
ripple after ripple, now that he had sunken into the mystery of things.
Once over the horror of his death, there had been a throb of
thankfulness that at least an end had been made to his great power of
bringing pain. And now here was another life to be thrown into the void
after him, another woman to love a dream. She awoke from that momentary
musing, to hear Electra saying,--
"You will excuse me, if I go on working? I sail so soon, and I must
leave everything in order."
"Electra," said Rose. Then she called her name again, as if appealing to
the softest of her moods. "How can I tell you! Electra, you mustn't love
my father."
Again that swift smile came to Electra's face. The face itself was all a
burning truth. The old crude precision in her seemed suddenly to have
flowered into this warm candor that spoke and liked to hear itself
disclosing, regardless of its auditor.
"You cannot"--she looked at Rose with happy inspiration, as if she had
been the first to make the saying--"you can't kill love with reason."
Again Rose deliberated. When she spoke it was with an air of sad
decisiveness.
"Electra," she said wistfully, "did he ask you to marry him?"
"I never thought of it," said Electra at once, in the simplest
unreserve. "It would have seemed too small, to limit it and bound it."
"Yes. That is what he would have said, too small. You were a quick
pupil."
Electra glowed.
"I know what he would have said, if he had had time. He did not need to
tell me."
Rose sat wondering what argument would move her.
"Electra," she ventured, "have you had any curiosity about my father's
relations to other people?"
"He had no time to tell me," said Electra, with a proud dignity.
"No, he would not have told you. He never confused his relations. Did
you know he was adored by women?"
Electra's face flamed. She made no answer. If she could have set forth
adequately what was in her tumultuous thoughts, she would have told Rose
that nothing seemed so entirely her own as her part in Markham MacLeod's
life. She had no curiosity over his past, no doubt of what her future
would have been with him, accepting what he chose to give her, and
finding it enough.
Rose pursued her into the cloister of her thought.
"Do you know, Electra," she was urging, "do you know how women devoted
themselves to him?"
"They must have devoted themselves to him. I am one of them. I am proud
to be."
"Ah, but, Electra, to take so much and give nothing!"
"How do you dare to say he gave nothing?"
"I know. I was slow in learning. I learned it first through your
brother. No, don't put me off with a gesture. I must speak of him. It
was he who showed me the cruelty of my father's attitude toward women.
He laughed over it, but he showed me."
"He was never cruel." Electra seemed to be dreaming away in a sad
reminiscence of his kindness.
"But to promise so much, Electra, and give nothing! He implied to every
one, I have no doubt, that she was his great helper, that he would have
married her if he had not been set aside by his work. That was like him.
He was a sponge drinking up devotion."
"Yes, and he gave it back to the hungry and the thirsty and the cold."
"I don't know. I do know what he absorbed. One woman did translations
for him. She worked like a dog, and he paid her with one of his looks.
Another--she was a titled lady--kept his suite of rooms ready for him,
and when he came, treated him like a prince. And they all had this sense
of intimacy with him. Each thought she was the only one. Each felt she
was divided from him by hard circumstance, but she should possess him in
the end."
"In heaven?" asked Electra, eager for the slightest knowledge of him.
"No, not in heaven. My father always said his expectations stopped here.
He never carried the game on there."
"The great souls"--Electra began, and stopped. Trouble was upon her
brow. She knew there was a goodly reason for every act he did, yet human
jealousy was in her. She had to seek out arguments. "The great souls are
different," she halted. "They are many-sided. Look at Goethe--"
But Rose had heard that reason. She was tired of it.
"It's a pity they make it so hard for other people," she said wearily.
"Because they are great, must they be greedy, too? But that was my
father. He may have been a great man, but he was not the man you think
him. If you saw him as he was,--he was a big, dominating animal, that's
all."
Electra sat staring at her, condemning, Rose knew, not Markham MacLeod,
but his daughter. The charm of his mastery was still upon her. Rose and
Peter, more mobile than she, had escaped with the cutting of his cord of
life. It was as if they had been under a crude natural magnetism, and
now that the magician had gone into another room, they were free. But
Electra had petrified in the attitude where he had left her. She had a
pitying certainty that Rose had never known him. Something like
indignation came now into her face. She spoke passionately:--
"Why do you want to take it away from me?"
Rose could not answer. Tears were in her eyes from pure pity at the loss
and pain of it all.
"We knew each other so short a time," brooded Electra; and it was
apparent that she believed the relation had been as much to MacLeod as
to her. "Why can't you let me have the comfort of it?"
"If it didn't mean so much time, so much energy wasted! If you wouldn't
devote your life to it,--you might, you know. It's quite like you,
Electra. And that would be a pity; because he was never for a minute
such a person as you think him,--never, Electra, never in the world."
Electra rounded upon her in a flash of indignation.
"Tell me what you think him."
Rose's mind ran back to that first night when, with the daring inspired
in her by their meeting, she had given Osmond a portrait of her father.
Now was the time to paint it again, but, for some reason, she could not.
The man had not changed, but his aims obscured him. Behind them, he was
nothing, but they were large enough to make his monument. Instead of
answering directly, she found herself saying,--
"I have had such letters about him!"
"From the Brotherhood?"
"Yes. And they will keep on coming for a long time now, because it is
everywhere, you know, in far, far-off places. And there's a tremendous
loyalty in them, not only to him but to the Brotherhood."
"How can you read them and not be loyal, too!"
Rose considered why she could. Was it because the Brotherhood seemed, in
her latest acquaintance with it, to have all the seeds of the old
conditions that made a world of hate? If it had been the pure bond it
promised to be, could even her father's sins have quenched the flame in
her? Then she remembered one night when, in her father's absence, some
one had spoken like a poet and created, in shining imagery, a new world.
She had seen it, the new world, hanging like a crystal in the rejoicing
sky.
"One night Ivan Gorof spoke," she began.
Electra's brows came together.
"He was the man that died."
"How did you know?"
"Peter told me."
"Yes. Well, there was a time when Ivan Gorof was like a flame. He was
more moved than any one. He was a student,--and so enthusiastic, so
believing,--I can't tell you! Afterwards he changed. That came suddenly.
But this night he spoke about the Brotherhood as he wanted it to be. He
said it could be a chain of hands round the earth, of people who wanted
to do justice and show mercy. The old oppressors killed, he said. The
Brotherhood must not kill. It can put to death,--but justly."
"What did he mean by justly?"
"Ah, that I don't know. I don't believe he knew, that night. He was like
a man seeing a vision. But if such a thing could grow and grow, he said,
that would be the kingdom of God. It would begin with the poor. Then
some day a king would join it, and there would be rejoicing and wonder
because some would think the king was mad and others would know it meant
a great step upward. And they would all choose law, not liberty as the
Brotherhood sees it. And then, he said, there would be a new heaven and
a new earth, and it wouldn't be possible for oppressors to live, because
everybody would love love and be afraid of hate. But it would all come
through men who hated injustice more when they did it than when it was
done to them."
"But that," said Electra, in no great interest, "is only Christianity."
"Is it? I don't know about that. I thought it was Ivan Gorof."
"What did he say?"
"My father?"
"The chief."
"It was reported to him, and I believe he said it was visionary. He
probably smiled a little. He said there would be no peace without the
sword. And afterwards Ivan told him to his face--I heard him--that it
would come by the sword, but not the sword of war. It must be the sword
kept hanging in the temple to be used for the god of the temple."
"Was the chief indignant?"
"He disapproved. Ivan was ignored, after that. He was quietly crowded
out. My father," she could not resist saying,--"my father was very
intolerant of new leadership."
"Naturally! He thought of the general good."
Rose sighed.
"Perhaps he did, Electra; I should like to think he did."
But she had told Electra nothing yet, she realized, to keep her from
going forth with an ignorant intent. She tried once more, not to destroy
the image of MacLeod, but to make it a just one. Yet if it were better
to have the image broken, that, too, must be done.
"My father," she said, "took life like a great play."
"A game!" put in Electra quickly. She had heard him use the word, though
as he said it, it seemed noble.
"Yes. He was always rearranging scenes on the big stage, ringing down
the curtain and putting it up on another act. But what Ivan Gorof
wanted--that silent spread of good--that he couldn't understand. He
wanted war and himself a big figure in the midst."
"He was a leader!" cried Electra jealously, "the greatest of all."
Rose smiled wistfully.
"I haven't weakened your faith, have I?" she asked. "You don't doubt the
wisdom of throwing yourself into this."
Electra rose suddenly from the desk, with an air of terminating the
interview. Her voice rang like metal.
"If you talked to me until you were an old woman, you couldn't convince
me. He was great--great! I should have followed him, if he had lived. I
shall follow him all the faster now."
Rose, too, came to her feet.
"I almost think," she said, "I shall hear of your speaking for the
cause."
A flush went over Electra's face. She looked wonderfully equipped for
some high task, and also as if she recognized her own value and was glad
she had that to give. Rose went back to Ivan Gorof and his great night.
"I keep remembering more and more of what he said," she mused. "He said
the Brotherhood, as he saw it, would have its way because it was so
beautiful. It would be like men in shining raiment regarded because they
made a light, and people would see the light and want to walk by it."
"I must put that down," said Electra absorbedly. "I may at any time have
to talk about him as I knew him."
"Ivan Gorof?"
"The chief. Was it Ivan Gorof who said that?"
Immediately, Rose saw, the words had lost their lustre. They were of no
value, save as they had the sanction of MacLeod. Electra moved a pace
nearer the door. She was impatient, Rose believed, to have her gone.
"Good-by, Electra," she said lingeringly and sadly. "I can't persuade
you, can I?"
"No, you can't persuade me."
"And you glory in it!"
"Yes. And I thank God I have something to glory in."
At last she had it, the purpose of her life, though it was only a
memory. But after all, what might she not turn it into? For she was
pressing on as rashly as if the army of her desires were not at the
cliff's edge below which foamed the sea, and in the sea, perhaps, lay
glorious disaster.
"I shall be in Paris within a month," Rose hesitated. "If I can do
anything for you there,--I told you the Brotherhood was not easily
found, but I could introduce you to the leaders."
"They will flock about you," said Electra, with a candid bitterness,
"because you are his daughter."
"Not long. There are things to do,--money to make over to them, money
that stood in his name. Everything was in his name. I don't know how
much he had of his own, so I shall keep my mother's and give back the
rest."
"That will be right," said Electra. She did not add "ethically."
Outlines had grown too sharp for that.
Rose held out her hand, and Electra, after a perceptible hesitation,
took it in her firm grasp. Having it, she seemed warmed, through the
contact, to something more humble and more natural. Still holding it,
she looked Rose in the face, as if she tried to read her deepest self.
"Tell me," she said, and stopped.
"Yes, Electra." The girl's voice was very soft. She felt as if she could
tell Electra anything that would help her.
"Did he love you?" The words came with difficulty, whether from jealousy
or pure interest Electra herself could not say.
Rose stood a moment, not so much considering her answer as grieved that
she must give it.
"No, Electra," she said then. "My father loved nobody,--but himself."
Then, as Electra dropped her hand, she went away. But after three paces
she returned, doubtful of her own judgment, but ready to venture it.
"Electra," she said, "the papers have begun already to report a woman's
speeches to the Brotherhood. You saw that yesterday."
Electra bowed her head silently. She was white to the lips.
"That woman was Ivan Gorof's mistress. My father separated them, for a
time, just as he is separating you now from all your past. Ivan Gorof
accused him of it, and next day he died. But I know, as well as I know
anything, that now she has gone back to Ivan Gorof's memory. She will
preach the Brotherhood as he saw it. Don't you see, Electra, until a man
rises that is strong enough, she will lead the Brotherhood herself?"
Electra struck her hands together in a passionate, unconsidered gesture.
But she recalled herself immediately.
"Good-by," she said coldly, and, turning about, went in.
XXIX
Rose, unquiet over her useless mission to Electra, sought out Peter
where he sat in the sun, his mind swaying in its constant rhythm between
his happy work and his charming dreams. He left the garden chair and
came forward to her, struck by the pathos of her face, and a little
irritated, too, because MacLeod's death was a sorrow past, and it seemed
unfortunate, at least, that there should be so much melancholy in bright
weather.
"Electra is going abroad, you know," she said.
Peter turned with her and they paced along the grass. Rose went on,--
"She was much impressed by my father."
"I know."
"She belongs to the Brotherhood now."
Peter nodded, his mind still with Osmond, but cheering a little in the
consciousness of her graceful presence.
"Peter!" She stopped, and laid a finger on his sleeve. "Say something to
her! She is going over there to work, to throw herself into that
movement. She might as well jump into the Seine."
"Yes," said Peter musingly. "Yes, of course! I'll go see her. I'll go at
once."
She assented eagerly. She seemed to hurry him away, and not knowing
quite what he was to do when he got there, he found himself, obedient
but unprepared, at the other house, before Electra. She was agreeably
welcoming. Peter had ceased even to remind her of young love, chiefly
because it was a part of her dignity to put the incomplete dream aside.
When she was forced to remember, sometimes by a word of grandmother's,
it gave her an irritated sense of having once been cheek to cheek with
something unworthy of her. But this morning Peter meant nothing
whatever. A larger bulk had blotted him out. He plunged, at once.
"I am going to Paris, too, Electra. We shall meet there."
She smiled at him with a fine remoteness.
"Perhaps," she said. Then a wave of her old distaste came over her, and
she asked, with the indifference that veils forbidden feeling,--
"Are you going together?"
"Together?"
"Yes. Are you going with Rose MacLeod?"
Peter frowned.
"We have not mentioned it," he said. Their coming to America together
had seemed most natural, but some intonation of her tone made the
implication odious. Seeing his look, she said, not giving him time to
answer,--
"You will help me with the Brotherhood. I must get in touch with it by
every possible means."
The color came into his face. He looked half ashamed, half wondering.
"I can't account for it," he returned, "but--Electra, I shan't have time
for those things any more."
"Not have time--for that!"
It was as if she accused him of lacking time to breathe.
"I can't help it," said Peter. "It's all true, Electra, as true as it
was; but I've got to paint. That's my business."
"Don't you feel that you owe anything to Markham MacLeod?"
He looked at her with interest, noting the indignation that made a
handsomer woman of her; but only for that reason, not because the
indignation stirred him. Peter hardly knew how he felt about Markham
MacLeod. He scarcely thought of him at all, save as Rose recalled him.
As to the Brotherhood, now that this great persuasive force was gone,
Peter could view it dispassionately, and it did not move him. It was
like waves heard a long way off, the waves of a sea he once had sailed,
but from which he had escaped to this upland meadow where the light was
good. Only when Rose, possessed by the remembrance of Ivan Gorof's
vision, had gone home and told him about it, had he felt the flare of
that old enthusiasm to be in the surge of the general life,--but chiefly
then because she had chanced to use the phrase "shining armor," and he
saw a knight pricking through a glade, with sunlight dappling between
leaves, and knew it would be good to paint. There was nothing to say to
Electra, because, as Rose had told him, she could listen to nothing but
the Brotherhood, and wakened only to MacLeod. It was not that she
refused other challenges; but her face grew mystical and he knew her
mind was afar from him. He got up to go.
"In Paris, then, Electra," he said awkwardly.
Her brows contracted. She remembered the other tryst that was to have
been, and could not answer.
"You will let me know where you are. I shall find you," Peter said, as
he went down the steps, "at once."
But as he walked away, he knew it would have to be some incredible
chance to bring them together. There was no room for him.
Electra sat there, her feet together, her hands in her lap, like a
carven image, and held herself still in her dream of fantasy. She hardly
knew where she was in these days. This was not the world as she had
known it. Bound beyond bound of possibility lay over its horizon. There
had been her former world, full of disappointments, lacking in
opportunities for picturesque morals, and Markham MacLeod had walked
into it, and turned on a light under which the whole place glittered. He
had caused things to be forever different. One such illumination made
all things possible. She felt like an adventurer setting sail. There in
the room where he had talked to her, she sat and thought of him and even
felt him near. The great stories flashed out before her, as if she
turned page after page. Dante--how many times did he see Beatrice? She
must look that up. But once would be enough, once for souls to recognize
each other and then be forever faithful. At a step in the hall she
recalled herself. It seemed as if everybody interrupted her in her
passionate musings. This was Madam Fulton, and Electra remembered she
had something to say to her. Madam Fulton looked very tired and irked in
some way, as if she found the daily burden hard to bear. Electra rose,
and waited scrupulously for her to sit.
"Billy Stark comes back to-morrow," said Madam Fulton. She took a chair,
and laid her head back wearily.
"When does he sail?"
"Next week. You go Wednesday. He goes Saturday."
Electra dared not remind her of that wild threat of marrying Billy Stark
and sailing with him. Her grandmother looked a pathetically old woman,
and such fantasy seemed to have withdrawn into its own place.
"Grandmother," she began delicately. She had a fear of disturbing
something frail that might fall to pieces of its own weakness.
"Well."
"Shall you stay on here?"
Madam Fulton roused herself.
"No," she said. "I am going to Bessie Grant's. She'll help me pull
myself together, and in the fall I shall move back to town."
Electra came awake to her pathetic look.
"You are not feeling well, grandmother," she said solicitously.
"Feeling well!" The old lady repeated it with a fractious emphasis. "I'm
worn out."
"Is it anything particular, grandmother?"
"Billy Stark is going away, isn't he? Isn't that particular enough? He's
the only human creature left, except Bessie Grant and that pretty girl."
"Rose MacLeod?"
"Yes; but she's too young. She tires me; you all tire me, all but Billy
and Bessie Grant. No, you can close the house, or I will, after you're
gone. I shan't be in it."
There was something inevitably foolish to Electra in the regret of an
old woman at losing the company of an old man whom she had not married
at the proper time. She found herself hoping, with some distaste, that
grandmother would forget him as soon as possible, and settle down into
the decencies of age. But Madam Fulton seemed to have gathered herself
