opposite. The bare stone pavement was damp, and the furniture consisted
of a dark walnut table, once polished, a long straight-backed settle
placed at one end, and twelve rush-bottomed chairs arranged round the
sides of the room with great regularity. Above the settle hung a
painfully realistic crucifix; on the wall at the opposite end a large
barocco picture represented Saint Ursula in glory with the Eleven
Thousand Virgins of Cologne. Opposite the windows there was a bad copy
of a portrait of Paul III., the Pope who first established the order.
Judging from the parlour, it could not be said that the Ursulines of
Ferrara were living in reprehensible luxury.
In three or four minutes the door opened again and the Mother Superior
entered. She was taller than most women, and very lean; her black gown
and the black veil that almost reached the ground hung in straight
folds, and her wimple and gorget framed a dark face, thin and
expressive, with noticeably symmetrical features and ardent black eyes.
It was impossible to guess at her age, but she might have been thirty.
She bent her head slightly, in acknowledgment of Gambardella's
respectful bow, and looked at him during several seconds, as if she were
recalling his appearance to her memory. Then she slowly walked away to
the settle, seated herself in the middle of it, and pointed to a chair
at a little distance. He sat down and waited for her to speak.
'Why have you come?' she asked, in a low tone that sounded resentful.
'Is it a crime to see you after ten years?' asked Gambardella with a
good deal of sadness, and watching her face intently.
'Unless you have changed greatly, it is at least a sin,' she answered
deliberately, and she met his eyes with eyes suddenly fierce.
'I have changed greatly, and not for the better,' he said simply, but he
could not face her look. 'It is neither to confess to you nor to ask
your forgiveness again that I am here, for you have no more right to a
confession than I have to your pardon.'
'That may be,' answered the nun, her tone relenting, 'but such as my
forgiveness can be, while I can still remember, you have it.'
Gambardella was visibly moved at this unexpected concession. He was
seated too far from her to touch her hand, but he put out his own humbly
towards the hem of her black skirt, then brought it back to his lips and
kissed it with reverence, as the very poor and wretched sometimes do in
Italy to express deep gratitude. She watched him, and there was the
faintest suggestion of a smile on her tightly closed lips. After a
little pause, during which their eyes met once, he spoke.
'I have come to inquire about a young Venetian lady and her
serving-woman, who took refuge with you last Saturday,' he said, with
perfect assurance, though he had no proof that the two were in the
convent.
The Mother Superior's face darkened.
'What are they to you?' she asked sternly.
This was a question which Gambardella was not prepared to answer
truthfully, and he had not foreseen it. He vaguely wondered what the
woman who had once loved him so well would say and do if she knew that
he had sunk to the condition of a paid Bravo, and had taken money from
one person to cut Ortensia's throat and from another to deliver her up a
prisoner, and was just now wondering how he could satisfy both his
patrons.
Until now he had seen a humorous element in his two abominable bargains;
but in the grim presence of his own past things looked differently. The
terrible eyes of the high-born woman he had loved and betrayed long ago,
when he was still called an honourable gentleman, were upon him now, and
he feared her as he had assuredly never feared any man in all his wild
life. She understood her power, and waited for him to speak.
But his fear only roused his faculties, and if he felt remorse when he
thought of what she had once been and of the life she was leading now,
by his fault, he knew well enough that as soon as she was out of his
sight he would feel nothing but a dim regret that would hardly hurt.
'I take a vicarious interest in the Lady Ortensia,' he said after a
little reflection. 'A friend of mine, who is travelling with me, is also
a friend of the man with whom she has run away, and who has been locked
up by mistake, as I dare say you have heard from her.'
'She has told me something,' the Mother Superior said coldly.
'I will tell you the whole story,' he answered.
He narrated the circumstances of Ortensia's flight substantially as they
were known to the Senator, and in as few words as possible, and she
listened without interrupting him.
'I know this Pignaver,' he said in conclusion, 'and I know positively
that he has engaged two Bravi to follow the pair and murder them. At the
best, he might be satisfied if Stradella were murdered and the girl
brought back to him. Those fellows may be even now in Ferrara, waiting
for a chance to do the deed. Our object is to unite the lovers and
protect them on their journey till they are beyond the reach of danger.
Do you see any great harm in that?'
'They are not married,' objected the nun.
'I am sure they mean to be, as soon as possible,' Gambardella answered.
'You know what the girl's life will be if you send her home, as I
suppose you mean to do. You can guess the sort of existence she will
lead when her uncle has her safely imprisoned in his house. I have heard
it said that he intended to marry her, and if that is true he will
deliberately torment her and perhaps starve her till she dies. He is as
vain as he is cruel, and she has not a relation in the world to
interfere with his doings.'
'Poor girl!' The Mother Superior sighed, and looked down at her folded
hands.
'And even if you insist on keeping her here, where I admit that she is
safe,' Gambardella continued, 'Stradella's life will not be safe when he
is out of prison. For I will answer for it that he will not leave
Ferrara without her, and his murder will be the first consequence of
your refusal to let her join him.'
'But they are not married,' the nun said again. 'I cannot let her go to
him. It would be a great sin! It would be on my conscience!'
'You will have his death on your conscience if you are not careful! But
there is a very simple way out of the difficulty, if you will agree to
it.'
'I will agree to nothing that is not right,' said the Mother Superior,
in a tone that excluded any compromise, 'and I tell you frankly that I
do not trust you. It would be strange if I did.'
'I do not ask you to trust me,' Gambardella answered. 'I shall merely
show you your duty, and leave you to do it or not, as you please!'
'My duty?' The nun was both surprised and offended.
'Yes,' replied the other, unmoved. 'Your objection is that they are not
married. Marry them, then! That is plainly your duty, if anything is!'
The Mother Superior looked at him quickly, as if not believing that he
was in earnest, for she had been convincing herself that it was he who
had carried off Ortensia, pretending to be Stradella.
'It must be a very easy thing for you,' Gambardella continued. 'You have
your own church here, and your own priest, who will probably obey you.
If you are afraid of committing an irregularity, you need only send a
request to the Archbishop, explaining that a runaway couple, for whom
you can vouch, wish to have their union blessed. No good bishop would
refuse such a slight favour as a dispensation from publishing banns. My
friend and I will bring Stradella here early in the morning, and you
will send the bride into the church from the convent. They will go away
man and wife, and before noon we shall all be many miles on the road to
Bologna and Rome. Could anything be simpler than that? or more perfectly
right? or more honourable for you under the circumstances?'
The nun had listened attentively, and when he had finished she nodded
her approval.
'I believe you are right,' she said, though her tone betrayed some
surprise that she could approve anything which he suggested. 'I will
take it upon myself to promise that our chaplain shall be waiting
to-morrow morning after matins, and that the bride shall be ready in
the sacristy. Poor child, she is poorly provided for her wedding! But I
will find a veil for her.'
'She will be grateful, and Stradella too. I have no doubt but that my
friend has already obtained his liberation.'
'What is your friend's name?' asked the Mother Superior, showing some
curiosity for the first time since the interview had begun.
Gambardella hesitated a moment, for the simple reason that he did not
know the answer to the question, and that 'Trombin' alone was evidently
not a name, but a nickname. The mere fact that the friends had both once
had a right to sit in the Grand Council by no means implied that they
had known each other, even by sight. To gain time Gambardella smiled and
asked a counter-question.
'Why do you wish to learn his name?' he asked. 'You can never have known
him.'
'That is true. It was idle curiosity. I do not care to know.'
'It is no secret,' Gambardella answered, having in the meantime thought
of a name that would do. 'My friend is Gaspero Mastropiero, a Venetian
gentleman of fortune and a great patron of musicians. And now,' he said,
rising as he spoke, 'nothing remains for me but to thank you for seeing
me, and to take my leave. Will you give me back my ring, Reverend
Mother?'
He stood before her, holding out his hand with the palm upward to
receive the token, and he laid a little stress on the title as he
pronounced it. But there was no irony in his tone, for, young as she
still was, it had been conferred upon her quite as much for her holy
life as for her high descent, in an age when noble blood had great
weight in such matters. He was certainly not speaking ironically;
perhaps, amidst the tatters of his honour, some rag still covered a spot
that could feel shame, and the monstrous deed, in doing which he had
entrapped the nun to help him unawares, seemed foul beside the purity of
her intention and the saintliness of her own life.
The emphasis he gave to the two words was, therefore, at once respectful
and sad, and did not offend her. She had put on the old brass ring
herself when the portress had sent it up to her with his message; she
took it off now and gave it back to him, careful that not even the tips
of her fingers should touch his palm. Then she led the way, and he
followed her.
'May you never put it to a worse use than to-day,' she said, stopping
and letting her eyes meet his for a moment. 'Good-bye.'
'Pray for me,' he said instinctively when he opened the door for her.
She said nothing, but she bent her head a little as she passed out,
perhaps meaning that she would do what he asked. He watched her tall
retreating figure as she went up the middle of the staircase, till she
turned past the dividing wall at the first landing and disappeared
without having once looked back. Then he himself went away through the
high corridor and the dark lodge, and the portress let him out in
silence.
He did not go back to the inn at once, for the distance was very short,
and he judged that Trombin could hardly have procured Stradella's
liberation in so short a time. He wished to be alone a little while,
for, in spite of what he had come to be, his interview with the Mother
Superior had disturbed him strangely. He had thought himself far beyond
that bitterness of remorse and that sickness of shame which she had made
him feel, and he wished to forget both before he met his companion to
discuss the execution of the deed they had promised to do together, and
could not now put off doing much longer. The nun's burning eyes still
haunted and reproached him, and her shadowy figure rose before him with
the thin white face in which he could still trace the beauty that had
once enthralled him. It was the bare woof of beauty that remained, for
grief and penance had worn away the warp, leaving only the lines on
which the exquisite fabric had been woven; but what was left of the
woman was still there, breathing and living, while her soul had grown
great in strength and spiritual honour till it towered above his who had
once loved her, and made him afraid to meet her look.
It could not last long, he knew, but while it did he must be alone. He
walked far out on a road that led through the rich damp plain, and it
was not till the sun was sinking low that he began to retrace his steps.
When he reached the inn he found Trombin and Stradella together, and his
friend introduced him with some ceremony as Count Gambardella. The
musician, who was fully informed of the latter's errand, pressed his
hand warmly, and looked at him, evidently expecting news of Ortensia.
'The lady and her serving-woman are well, sir,' Gambardella said at
once, 'and I trust that to-morrow may end your difficulties happily.'
'I hope so indeed,' Stradella answered.
He looked pale and careworn, but no one would have guessed from his
appearance that he had just spent four nights and the better part of
five days in the most noisome dungeon in Ferrara. He wore the same black
velvet coat with purple silk facings which he was wearing when Ortensia
saw him for the first time. It fitted him well and showed his athletic
young figure to advantage, for the fashion was not yet for the 'French'
coat which Louis Fourteenth afterwards made universal.
Gambardella measured him with his eye, as Trombin must have done
already. He wore only the short rapier of a civilian gentleman, but he
might be a good fencer and able to give trouble to a single adversary,
and he looked strong. Neither of the Bravi knew what physical fear
meant, but it was of no use to risk a useless wound, and men of
Stradella's type could be more conveniently despatched by stabbing them
in the back than by going through the form of a duel.
'I have not been able to see the lady herself,' Gambardella continued,
'but the Mother Superior of the Ursulines was so good as to receive me,
and after some demur she agreed to let the Lady Ortensia and her woman
leave the convent early to-morrow morning.'
'Not till to-morrow?' Stradella could not hide his disappointment.
'To-morrow, and then only on one condition, which I took it upon me to
promise that you shall fulfil.'
The musician looked sharply at the speaker.
'I trust that you have not promised for me more than I may honourably
do,' he said.
At this Trombin instantly pressed down the hilt of his rapier and made
the point stick up behind; he pursed his mouth and opened his eyes till
they glared like an angry cat's.
'I would have you know, Signor Maestro, that it is not the custom of
Venetian gentlemen to promise anything not honourable, either in their
own names or for others!'
Pignaver would have apologised at once if either of the Bravi had taken
that tone, but the Sicilian singer was made of better stuff than the
Venetian Senator.
'Sir,' he answered quietly, 'I am not a quarrelsome man, and, moreover,
I am deeply indebted to you for my freedom. But there is a lady in this
case. Let me first know what Count Gambardella has promised in my name;
for if, as I hope, it pledges me to nothing unworthy of the Lady
Ortensia or of myself, I shall be doubly in your debt; but if not, which
heaven avert, I shall be at your service for a quarrel, without further
words.'
While he was speaking he met Trombin's ferocious stare steadily, and
when he had finished he turned to Gambardella. The Bravo liked his tone
and manner as much as he had despised Pignaver for his repeated
apologies. It would be shameful to stab such a man in the back, Trombin
thought; as shameful and unsportsman-like as an Englishman thinks it to
shoot a fox or to angle with worms for fish that will take a fly.
'The Mother Superior,' said Gambardella, paying no attention to what had
just passed, 'is a saintly woman. She requires that before taking away
the Lady Ortensia, you shall be duly married in the church of San
Domenico, early to-morrow morning. This, sir, I ventured to promise in
your name, and no more, as one man of honour speaking for another.'
'You could not have done me a greater service!' Stradella cried,
surprised and delighted. 'I am sorry that I ever questioned your good
judgment, sir!'
Trombin's fierce expression relaxed into one better suited to his round
pink cheeks, and peace was immediately restored. But the Bravi exchanged
glances which meant that they were perplexed by the undeniable fact that
they were beginning to like the musician, quite apart from their
admiration for his genius.
Before supper they consulted together in the privacy of Trombin's room
over a thimbleful of Greek mastic, which they drank as an appetiser.
They were agreed not to lose sight of the young couple again, and not to
hurry matters to a termination. What could be more delightful than to
make the journey to Rome together with the greatest singer in the world
and his bride, acting at once as an armed escort and as friends ready to
save the happy pair all trouble about small details from day to day?
Stradella had declared that he meant to reach Rome without delay, while
he was sure of a warm welcome and of the protection of Cardinal
Altieri, in case Pignaver sent any one in pursuit.
'Rome,' said Trombin thoughtfully, 'is a convenient place for doing
business. The streets are narrow, and there are many wells in the
courtyards of the old houses.'
'It is true that we have never had any trouble in Rome,' Gambardella
answered. 'Commend me to narrow streets for business. I hate your great
squares, your promenades, your gardens, and your belvederes! Shall you
ever forget that summer's evening on the Chiatamone in Naples?'
'I feel that I am still running away,' Trombin said. 'But Rome is quite
different. It is true that we have not yet decided which of the two it
is to be. But I have just thought of a way of getting both the fees.'
'For a man of imagination, you have taken a long time to think of it!'
'It is this. We will deliver up both in Venice, Stradella to the lady,
and the girl to her uncle. The lady will believe that the girl is dead,
for she will never see or hear of her again, and she will pay us in
full. The Senator will pay half down when he gets his niece back, and
after the lady has enjoyed the Maestro's company for a few days he can
be done away with, and Pignaver will pay the balance. What do you think
of that as a solution, my friend?'
'There is much to be said for it,' Gambardella admitted.
He nodded and sipped his mastic, which was not an easy operation, since
he could not go on filling the small glass as he would a tumbler of
wine; but he ingeniously set it to one corner of his mouth, well out of
the way of his nose, and by turning his head on one side he succeeded in
sipping it to the end without spilling a drop.
'It is a monstrous thing to interrupt such a career as Stradella's,' he
continued, for his companion had said nothing. 'But five hundred ducats
are a great deal of money, and beggars cannot be choosers! Nevertheless,
if you can think of some plan which will accomplish the same result by
saving the Maestro and putting the girl out of the way instead, I should
prefer it. A woman more or less makes no difference, but there is only
one Stradella!'
'I will do my best,' Trombin answered, 'but you cannot have everything.'
The Bravi and Stradella supped in a room apart for greater privacy,
because a large party of noisy Bolognese merchants had arrived on their
way to Venice, and were eating in the dining-room. Cucurullo and
Grattacacio waited on their masters, the dishes being brought to the
door by a scullion.
There were wax candles on the table in handsome candlesticks, for a mere
brass oil-lamp was not good enough for such fine gentlemen as Trombin
and Gambardella when their pockets were full of money; and in the middle
of the board a magnificent majolica basket was filled with cherries and
green almonds.
The two servants eyed each other with a certain mutual distrust, for
Grattacacio had at once discovered that his colleague was one of those
poor creatures that have not even the spirit to cheat their masters, and
Cucurullo's quietly penetrating intelligence detected under Tommaso's
accomplished exterior the signs of a still more accomplished scoundrel.
For the present, however, the two treated each other with much civility,
and their three masters were admirably served at supper.
They drank to one another in the old Burgundy, and Trombin proposed the
health of the bride, repeating in her honour one of Petrarch's sonnets
in praise of Laura. He said that as he had never seen her he could only
compare her beauty to that of the angels, and her virtues to those of
the blessed saints, whom he had not seen either, and had no expectation
of seeing hereafter; similarly he likened the Maestro's voice to that of
a seraph, on the ground that its like would never be heard on earth.
Stradella laughed a little, for the first time in five days, and emptied
his glass to Ortensia. He was no match for his companions at eating and
drinking, as he soon found out, and he was satisfied long before they
were; but the good old wine had brought back the warmth to his face and
hands, though he had drunk but little, and presently he went for his
lute. He tuned it and then played softly while Trombin ate candied fruit
and Gambardella cut himself shavings of fresh Parmesan cheese, which he
nibbled with salt, and both drank wine, listening to his music with
delight.
It was worth hearing, indeed, for under his masterly touch the
instrument sang, laughed and wept, and whispered love-words at his
will; now, one high string pleaded its passionate melody to a low and
sighing accompaniment that never swelled to reach it; and now, the
nineteen strings sounded together as a full orchestra, bursting in
triumphant harmonies, and almost deafening to hear; again, the deepest
string began a fugue that was taken up by the next above and the next,
and traversed all, gathering sonorous strength as the parts increased
from two to three, from three to four, all moving at once to the grand
climax, and then sinking again and falling away one by one, softer and
softer to the solemn close.
Stradella was profoundly happy, and he had but one way of expressing his
happiness to himself, which was the most beautiful way there is, for he
made the art he loved his means of telling the world his joy.
Later, when the window was open, and the young moon was shedding a
gentle light upon the broad square, he began to sing softly, wondering
that he should have any voice left after what he had suffered; but great
singers are not like other men, at least as to their throats, and after
a few trials the rich notes floated out deliciously, as effortless and
as true, as soft and as strong as ever, in those marvellous love-songs
of his own that thrilled all Italy while he lived, and long afterwards.
The Bravi had turned their chairs to listen, for he had gone to the
window. They had finished their Burgundy, and most of his share to boot,
and peace had descended on their restless souls; and if, from all the
delights the world held, they could have chosen one for that May
evening, they would have asked for none but this, to sit and listen to
the greatest of living singers and musicians, deeply in love, and
singing more for himself than that any one might hear him.
'It is absolutely impossible,' said Trombin gravely to his companion,
when Stradella paused at last.
'Absolutely,' assented Gambardella.
'What is impossible?' the singer asked carelessly.
'To sing better than you,' answered Gambardella with a short laugh.
CHAPTER XII
Quite out of sight in the choir, more than sixty nuns and at least as
many of their girl pupils were still chanting matins when Stradella and
the two Bravi entered the Church of San Domenico, followed by Cucurullo.
The latter's fellow-servant had left Ferrara at dawn with his masters'
luggage, to ride ahead and order rooms and dinner at Bologna for the
whole party. Stradella had secured a travelling-carriage on which his
effects were already packed, and the harnessed horses were standing
ready to be put to.
Gambardella dipped his fingers into the nearest holy-water basin and
held them out dripping for Stradella to touch before he crossed himself,
as the others also did; then all followed him up the side aisle to the
door of the sacristy, where they waited till the singing ceased. The
priest's deep voice spoke a few words alone, the nuns and pupils
answered, and so again, through the short Responsory; and after a moment
the soft shuffling of many felt-shod feet on the stone pavement was
heard as the sisters and girls left the hidden choir in orderly
procession.
The sacristan opened the padded swinging-door and saw the four men
waiting. He was a small man with a round red nose and he took snuff
plentifully, as the state of his shabby black cassock showed.
'If the gentlemen will put themselves to the inconvenience of coming
in,' he said, 'they will find all ready and the lady waiting.'
He spoke with obsequious politeness, but his eyes looked with sharp
inquiry from one to the other, trying to make out which of the three
gentlemen was the bridegroom; that is to say, which of them would tip
him after the ceremony--for in such matters, as he well knew, much may
be guessed from the face and apparent humour of the giver.
He was relieved to see that Stradella now took the lead, and that every
line of his handsome young face betrayed his joyous anxiety to be
married as soon as possible.
Between the church and the sacristy there was a damp and gloomy
vestibule, at the end of which the sacristan opened another
swinging-door and Stradella suddenly saw Ortensia standing in a blaze of
light, covered from head to foot with a delicate white veil shot with
gold threads; for the early sun poured in through two great windows and
flooded the sacristy, gleaming on the carved and polished walnut
wardrobes, blazing on the rich gold and jewels and enamel of the sacred
vessels and utensils in the tall glass-fronted case, and making a cloud
of glory in the bride's veil. It covered her face, but in the splendid
light it hardly dimmed her radiant loveliness.
Beside her, but half a step farther back, stood Pina, in her grey dress,
as quiet and self-possessed as ever. Near them stood a tall old priest
who had a thin and gentle face.
Stradella sprang forward with outstretched hands, forgetting everything
except that Ortensia was before him. But he had not yet reached her side
when the priest was between them, laying one hand on his shoulder and
quietly checking him, though smiling kindly, as if he quite understood.
The Bravi had started when they first caught sight of the Venetian girl,
for neither of them had expected such rare beauty; and with the added
illusion of the gold-shot veil and the all-generous sunshine, it was
nothing less than transcendent. Trombin and Gambardella looked at each
other quietly, as they always did when the same thought struck them.
Meanwhile the tall old priest made the young couple kneel before the
little altar on one side of the sacristy, where two praying-stools had
been placed in readiness. Pina knelt down a little way behind her
mistress, and Cucurullo took his place at the same distance behind his
master; but Trombin went and stood on Ortensia's left and Gambardella on
Stradella's right, as witnesses for the bride and bridegroom
respectively.
Thus it was that the runaway couple were duly married and blessed in the
sacristy of San Domenico on that May morning, little dreaming why it had
all been so cleverly managed for them; but it was clear that Stradella
had been prepared for the event, since he produced two wedding rings of
different sizes and gave them to the priest to bless.
'I will,' he said, in answer to the latter's question.
'I will,' said Ortensia in a low tone, but by no means doubtfully.
'Ego conjungo vos,' the priest went on; and the rest was soon said, the
Bravi dropping on their knees at the benediction.
Then the sacristan brought out the register and laid it on the broad
polished table on which the vestments were folded, placing pens and ink
and the sand-box beside it; and the priest first wrote a few words, to
say that he had married the couple by a special dispensation from the
Archbishop of Ferrara; and Stradella and Ortensia signed their names,
and after them the Bravi, who indeed merely wrote 'Trombin' and
'Gambardella,' but managed to make their signatures almost illegible
with magnificent flourishes. The priest bade Pina and Cucurullo sign
too, as they said they could write, and the hunchback wrote 'Antonino
Cucurullo' in a small neat hand like a seminarist's, and Pina set down
her name as 'Filippina Landi.'
The priest, who had watched the signing, looked at her in some surprise.
'Are you married or unmarried?' he asked quietly.
'Unmarried,' answered Pina in her hard voice, and she turned away.
For Landi was a patrician name; and though Jews, when baptized, usually
took the surname of the noble under whose auspices they were converted,
it was quite clear that Pina was not of Semitic race.
Stradella had taken Ortensia's hand and kissed it when the little
ceremony was over, but that was all, and neither could find words to
speak. Pina took off the beautiful veil, folded it on the polished
table, and rolled it up to carry away, for the Mother Superior wished
Ortensia to keep it. Then the serving-woman produced the two brown
cloaks in which she and her mistress had fled from Venice, and they put
them on, and all left the church together after thanking the priest; and
Stradella gave the sacristan two silver Apostolic florins, which was the
largest fee the fellow had ever received in his life.
When they were all in the street, the Bravi took off their hats and
asked to be introduced to the bride, and Stradella presented them with
some ceremony, greatly to the surprise and delight of some ragged
children who had collected round the church steps; for Ortensia made a
court courtesy, and the Bravi bowed to the ground, sweeping the
cobble-stones with their plumes and sticking up their rapiers behind
them almost perpendicularly in the air.
'Count Trombin, Count Gambardella,' said the musician to his wife,
introducing the pair. 'These gentlemen have liberated us from our
respective prisons and have been kindly instrumental in bringing about
our marriage.'
'We owe you both a debt of undying gratitude, gentlemen,' said Ortensia,
blushing a little under her brown hood.
'It is an honour to have served your ladyship,' Trombin replied, with
another grand bow.
Ortensia slipped her arm through Stradella's and pressed his
surreptitiously against her side, as if to say that she would never let
him go out of her sight again; and she wished, as she had never wished
for anything in her life, that she were alone with him already, to throw
her arms round his neck and tell him the very things he was longing to
tell her.
Behind them the Bravi walked in silence, their hands on the hilts of
their rapiers and their eyes fixed on the happy pair, each absorbed in
his own reflections.
Trombin thought, in the first place, that Ortensia was one of the most
beautiful young creatures he had ever seen; and he flattered himself
that he had seen many. Gambardella, on the other hand, wore his most
sour look, for he was disgusted to find that the impression left by his
interview with the Mother Superior was not so ephemeral as he had
believed it to be; and being angry with himself he wished that the whole
business were finished, that Stradella were dead and Ortensia safe in
her uncle's hands, or that Ortensia were already killed and that
Stradella had been delivered to his Venetian admirer bound hand and foot
and gagged, according to contract, so that Gambardella might apply his
mind to other matters.
But Trombin was not thinking only of the lady. The humour of the whole
affair struck him as delightful in the extreme, and he smiled to
himself, showing his sharp white teeth, when he thought of the tricks
that had been played on the Legate and the Ursuline nuns in less than
twenty-four hours. It was most especially amusing to think how that
cut-throat Gambardella, the weight of whose sins would have staggered
the Grand Penitentiary himself, had played Old Morality to the Mother
Superior, and had actually been the one to suggest a proper marriage as
the only virtuous solution of the difficulty.
There was not much time for such reflections, however, for the distance
to the inn was short, and when they reached it the young couple's
travelling-carriage was ready and the horses were saddled for the Bravi,
who were already dressed for riding. So there was nothing to hinder them
all from starting at once, since the score was already paid.
In less than half an hour after they had left the church, the whole
party was well outside the city gates and on the road to Rome.
CHAPTER XIII
A month had passed since Stradella and Ortensia had fled from Venice,
and after their adventure in Ferrara no hand had been raised against
them on their way to Rome. They had at first lodged in the ancient
hostelry at the Sign of the Bear, which still stands, and is not only
called the Orso inn as it was hundreds of years ago, but has given its
name to the street in which it is situated. It stands at the entrance to
that part of the city which was in old times dominated by the Orsini,
who undoubtedly got their name from some ancient stone or marble bear
that was built into the outer wall of their stronghold; but whether the
old inn was called after the image itself, or after the Orsini badge, no
one can tell.
Stradella and his wife lodged for a few days in that large upper room,
of which the beautiful loggia may still be seen from the new embankment;
but in those days, and much later, another row of tall houses stood on
the opposite side of the street, between the Orso and the river, making
an unbroken line as far as the Nona tower at the Bridge of Sant' Angelo,
and completely cutting off the view. It was the best of the Roman inns,
even when Rome had more hostelries than any city in Europe. Philippe de
Commines lodged there, and Montaigne, and many another famous man who
visited Rome before and after Stradella's time.
It was there, in that upper chamber, that the happy lovers first tasted
peace and rest after the trials and fatigues of their long journey; for
though they were man and wife it is but right to call them lovers, who
loved so truly till they died. It was there that they first learned to
know and understand each other, and to see why they had loved at first
sight and had fled together, wresting their happiness violently from an
adverse fate, when they had been alone scarcely one whole hour in all
during their brief acquaintance, and had kissed but twice.
For as they lived those first days together they found all they had
dreamed of, each in the other, and more too; and every fresh discovery
was a sweet new world, till many worlds made up the universe of their
new being that circled round love's sun in a firmament of joy. Love had
been great from the first, but now he grew to be all-powerful; there had
been hours when one or the other might have been persuaded to draw back
for some weighty reason, but no reason was strong enough to part them
now, not even the great last argument of death himself.
Surely, say you, the course of true love should have run smooth for
them, if ever. But know you not that the gods envy no small thing, nor
are angry at any humdrum happiness of common men? Know you not that the
god of war spares the coward and slays the brave? That in the race for
fortune Jove often trips the swiftest runners and lets the dull plodder
creep past the winning post alone? Know you not that whom the gods love
die young?
Ortensia and Stradella knew none of these things. He had grown famous
almost without an effort when scarcely more than a boy, and fame did not
desert him; and now that he had overcome obstacles and passed through
danger to be happy, he believed with child-like faith that such
happiness, once got, must be safe from outward harm, since it dwelt in
the heart, where no one could see it, to envy it as men envied worldly
glory. As for Ortensia, she neither thought of the future nor remembered
the near past, but lived only in each present dazzling day.
For a whole week they scarcely showed themselves, though Stradella's
return was known in Rome, and he received many invitations to rich men's
houses and requests for new compositions, and pressing offers of money
if he would but sing at mass or vespers in this basilica or that. If he
had needed gold, he could have had it for an hour's trouble, or for an
effort of a few minutes which was no effort at all. But for the moment
he had enough, and nothing should disturb the first days of his golden
honeymoon.
Trombin and Gambardella also lodged in the Orso, but in rooms far from
the happy pair, whom they chose to leave in peace for the present, never
asking to see them nor inviting them to their well-spread table. Indeed,
any such invitation might have come better from the other side now, for
never did a young runaway couple incur a heavier debt of gratitude than
Stradella and Ortensia owed to the two cut-throats who meant to murder
them, and were even then living under the same roof and on the best of
everything with money advanced to them for that very purpose.
But the time and the conditions were not now suited for the deed, which
might have been done easily enough a dozen times between Ferrara and
Rome. Moreover, the Bravi had not yet come to a definite agreement as to
the plan they should pursue, and Trombin's scheme, which seemed the
best, was far less easy to carry out than a common murder, and very much
more expensive; for it meant kidnapping both Stradella and his wife, and
taking them all the way back to Venice as close prisoners, without
exciting suspicion by the way, so that the inns at which they had all
stopped on their journey southwards would have to be scrupulously
avoided on their return.
There was no hurry, however, for they had not spent the two hundred
ducats advanced to them; or, to be accurate, they had played at the
French Ambassador's gambling-tables with a part of the money and had won
a good deal. For in those days every foreign ambassador in Rome claimed
the right to keep a public gambling-room in his embassy, for his own
profit, which was often large, and was always a regular source of
income. But the Bravi had already written to Pignaver as well as to the
lady for more funds, on the ground that forty days had passed without
affording them the opportunity they sought, and at two ducats a day
their account thus came to eighty ducats, already gone for unavoidable
expenses. Since they were paid twice over, it was quite natural that
their expenses should sometimes be doubled.
Meanwhile they watched their prey closely, and without any apparent
intention of disturbing the peace of the lovers' paradise they were very
often just strolling out or coming in exactly when Stradella and
Ortensia were passing through the gate in one direction or the other. In
this way Trombin saw Ortensia almost every day, and all four generally
exchanged a few friendly words before going on their way.
The beautiful Venetian and her husband were in the habit of going out
together either early in the morning, when they were sure not to meet
any of Stradella's fashionable acquaintances, or late in the June
afternoons, when all society congregated in certain fixed gathering
places and nowhere else, such as the gardens of the French Embassy,
which was established in the Villa Medici, or in the vast grounds of the
Villa Riario, which is now called Corsini, where Queen Christina of
Sweden had finally taken up her abode, and was giving herself airs right
royally as the chief living patroness and critic of all the arts and
sciences. To her, too, and to her court, Stradella had sung more than
once when he had last been in Rome, at which time she had lived there
little more than a year. Again, the precincts of the Vatican were to be
avoided, and the news-mongering Banchi Vecchi, where every smart gossip
in town resorted twice or thrice in the week to replenish his stock of
facts and anecdotes, true and untrue, and where he could buy the
sensational account of the latest execution, or elopement, or fraud.
The young couple avoided all such places carefully. Stradella knew the
city well, and led Ortensia to many lovely spots unknown to fashion, and
into many dim old churches, more than one of which had echoed to his own
music on great feast-days, from the Lateran and Santa Croce and Santa
Maria in Domnica, far away beyond the Colosseum, in the wilderness
within the southern wall of the city, to the fashionable Santa Maria in
Via, and San Marcello and the Pantheon.
Sometimes, if they had turned and looked into the distance behind them,
they might have seen Trombin's pink cheeks and well-turned figure not
very far away. For he was a susceptible creature, as he often confessed
to his companion, and the very first sight of Ortensia on the morning of
her marriage had made a deep impression on him. It was not only her face
and her hair, which resembled that of the late lamented Titian's Beauty;
there was something in her figure and walk that made him half mad when
he watched her; hers was not the stately stride of the black-eyed
plebeian beauty, balancing her huge copper 'conca' on her classic head,
still less was it the swaying, hip-dislocating, self-advertising gait of
some of those handsome and fashionable ladies who frequented the Villa
Medici on Sunday afternoons, and progressed through a running fire of
compliments from pale-faced young gentlemen of wealth and noble lineage.
Perhaps, after all, it was not Ortensia's walk in itself, but also
every movement of her beautiful body that made the Bravo's pulses throb;
it was not her step only, with all the mystery the moving draperies
could mean, but the grace in the half-turn of her head too, the
undulating motion of her hand and wrist and half-bent arm when she
fanned herself, the resistless seduction in her flexible figure when she
turned quickly to Stradella, while leaning on his arm and still walking
on, to ask some new question, or in pleased surprise at something he had
just told her.
The end of their first days of peace at the Orso came one afternoon
quite suddenly in the queer round church of San Stefano Rotondo, which
is not like any other in the world, and is entirely decorated, if the
word may be so misused, with representations of the awful tortures
undergone by early martyrs. If Stradella himself had ever been there, he
would not have taken his wife to see such sights, but the church was not
more often open then than now, and the two went in from pure curiosity.
As they entered the vast circular aisle and turned to the right, they
came suddenly upon a group of fashionable people listening to the
explanations of an imposing gentleman with perfectly white hair, who
indicated the points of interest in a picture with a heavy stick made of
a narwhale's ivory horn. He was describing minutely and realistically
the sufferings of a virgin martyr, and his chief hearer followed what he
said with absorbed interest.
Stradella instantly recognised the ex-Queen of Sweden. There was no
mistaking the daughter of Gustavus Adolphus, with her square face and
red cheeks, her disagreeable eyes and her black wig, her short green
skirt and her mannish bearing. She was forty-four years old at that
time. The fine-looking old man was Bernini, the sculptor; at her elbow,
and not much above it in height, stood a misshapen youth with the face
of a sad angel, the poet Guidi; he was evidently pained and disgusted by
the lecture. Three other gentlemen stood at a little distance behind the
Queen, but there was nothing to distinguish them from ninety-nine out of
a hundred other fine gentlemen of fashionable society who wore extremely
good coats, cut and curled their hair in the latest style, and proved
that they were not absolute fools by holding their tongues when men like
Bernini or Guidi were speaking.
At the sharp click of Ortensia's little heels on the stone pavement the
Queen turned her head and instantly recognised Stradella, who bowed low
as she nodded to him, and extended her hand in a gesture that bade him
wait. He had no choice, and she looked at the picture again and listened
with evident satisfaction to the great sculptor's explanation of the
unpleasant subject. Guidi, however, tried not to hear; he also knew
Stradella, who had set some of his verses to music, and he exchanged a
glance of intelligence with him, wondering who his lady companion might
be.
Stradella was already bending to whisper in her ear and tell her who the
lady was, and that it was impossible to run away. Ortensia had never
seen a queen before, and looked at her critically. Queen Christina, she
thought, was anything but a fine-looking woman, though she looked
intelligent, and Ortensia remembered scores of Venetian ladies who were
much more queenly in appearance.
When Bernini had brought his poor little martyr to her last gasp, he
added that, while he declined to disparage the work of a late
fellow-artist, he considered Pomarancio's paintings beneath criticism;
he then paused and took snuff. The Queen smiled sarcastically at his
last words.
'Without speaking well of you, Cavaliere,' she said, 'I consider you as
agreeable as you are famous.'
Bernini shut his snuff-box with a sharp snap and bowed low, though he
quite understood the rebuke. Meanwhile Stradella led Ortensia forward,
and the Queen turned to them as they came up.
'I am overjoyed to see you, Maestro,' she said, graciously giving him
her hand to kiss while he touched the ground with one knee, and Ortensia
executed a ceremonious courtesy. 'And who is this lady?' the Queen asked
almost at once.
'My wife, Madam,' answered Stradella proudly. 'We are lately married.'
'Surely you are not a Roman, my dear child?' the Queen said inquiringly.
'No, Madam,' answered Ortensia, meeting the penetrating gaze of the
disagreeable eyes without any nervousness. 'I am a Venetian, and was
born a Grimani.'
The Queen smiled still more graciously at the ancient name, though she
was a little surprised that a Grimani should have married a singer.
Bernini and Guidi greeted Stradella while the Queen exchanged these few
words with his wife, and the three gentlemen also came forward and
pressed his hand, asking him questions about his journey, his marriage,
and his present lodgings.
'What?' cried young Paluzzo Altieri. 'Lodging at the Orso? At an inn? My
uncle will never allow that, nor her Majesty either!' He glanced at the
Queen, who was still talking with Ortensia. 'You are the Pope's guests
in Rome, Maestro, and I shall see that you are treated as such! Where
will you be pleased to lodge, my dear Stradella? The whole Altieri
palace is at your disposal, and you have but to choose your
apartments----'
'Surely,' interrupted the Queen, who was listening now, 'I have a prior
right to lodge a great artist in my house! Will you come and stay awhile
with me, my dear?' she asked, turning to Ortensia again, with a sudden
smile.
Ortensia was not at all overcome by the invitation, as the Queen perhaps
expected that she would be, and she answered with demure caution.
'Your Majesty is too kind,' she said, without committing herself.
'Very well, my dear Altieri,' the Queen went on at once, as if Ortensia
had already refused the proffered hospitality, 'I yield, but to His
Holiness only, not to you!'
She laughed that strangely hard ringing laugh of hers, that reminded
northern men of the sound of sharp skates cutting the smooth ice of a
frozen river, where leafless birches and frost-bound banks send the
notes echoing away between them till they are lost in the distance.
'The Pope owes your Majesty thanks,' the young courtier answered,
bending his head a little, though he could hardly take his eyes from
Ortensia.
Her Majesty Christina was out on one of her sight-seeing expeditions, in
which old Bernini felt himself highly honoured to play guide, though she
sometimes, as now, insisted on seeing sights which he would not
willingly have shown her, and on hearing explanations which he would
willingly have omitted. For though she set herself up as a profound
critic and a super-refined æsthetic, her real nature was at once coarse
and slightly Sadie, and she took pleasure in tales of bloodshed and
suffering which would have disgusted a healthy-minded woman of ordinary
sensitiveness. Indeed, as her Italian contemporaries knew her during
those long years she spent in Rome, she was very far from being the
royal Christina of the playwrights and poets. Her knowledge of art was
not that of the critic, but of the professional dealer in antiquities,
and though her opinion on the beauty of anything, from a picture to an
inlaid cabinet, was often mere nonsense, she was never mistaken as to
the price of the object. She was not an amateur, but an expert, and
though anything that was really fashionable pleased her, she would buy
nothing that had not an intrinsic value. In those first years of her
permanent residence in Rome she was rich, for in voluntarily abdicating
the throne she had reserved to herself a liberal income, which
afterwards dwindled to very little, and she kept up a considerable state
in the Palazzo Riario, that overlooks the river from the Trastevere
side. There was hardly an artist or a literary man in Rome, or a student
of science or a musician, who did not regularly pay his court to her,
and dedicate to her something of his best work. Not rarely, too, she
gave her advice; Bernini should finish his last statue in such and such
a way, Guidi should avoid one rhyme and introduce another, on pain of
her displeasure. Bernini yielded politely, because of all Italy's
artists of genius he was the most thoroughly cynical in following the
fashion of his time; Guidi obeyed because a dinner was always a dinner
to a starving youth of twenty, and a rhyme was no great price to pay for
it; but he quietly enclosed her suggestions in quotation marks, thereby
disclaiming any responsibility for them.
The young Paluzzo Altieri was nephew to the Cardinal who governed Rome
as the 'real' Pope, while the octogenarian Clement X., who was called
the 'nominal' Pope, spent most of his days more or less in his bed. The
Cardinal and all his relations had been adopted by him as 'nephews,' and
as he was the last of his race he had bestowed on them and their heirs
all his vast private possessions instead of enriching them out of the
treasury, as many popes did by their families.
Alberto Paluzzo Altieri was good-for-nothing, and like most really
worthless young men he exercised an extraordinary charm on every one who
knew him, both women and men. For to be a real good-for-nothing,
without being a criminal, implies a native genius for wasting other
people's time as agreeably as one's own, and for helping rich men to get
rid of their money with infinite pleasure and no profit at all, and for
making every woman believe that she can certainly convert and reform the
prodigal by the simple process of allowing him to fall in love with her,
which, of course, must elevate him to her moral and intellectual level.
There was nothing very remarkable about Alberto except that charm of
his. He was dark, he had straight black hair, and tolerably regular
features, like many young Romans; he was neither tall nor short, nor
exceptionally well made, and of the three young gentlemen who
accompanied the ex-Queen on her sight-seeing excursion, he was the least
ostentatiously dressed. But he had a wonderfully pleasant voice in
speaking, with the smile of a happy and phenomenally innocent boy, and
his bright brown eyes had the most guileless expression in the world. At
the present time it amused him to be Queen Christina's favourite,
perhaps because she was a genuine queen, or possibly because her
cold-blooded murder of Monaldeschi was still so fresh in every one's
memory that there was a spice of danger in the situation; but in any
case he was prepared for the first pleasant opportunity of changing his
allegiance which might present itself.
When he saw Stradella's young wife it occurred to him at once that such
a chance was within his reach, and he was not satisfied till he had made
the musician promise to move from the inn to the Altieri palace on the
next day but one; for Alberto was the eldest son, and neither his
father, who was old, nor his mother, who was a slave to her perpetual
devotions, ever attempted to oppose his wishes in such matters. Was he
not a model son? Could anything surpass his sweet-tempered affection for
his parents? Why should he not have what he liked? Good-for-nothings are
often their mothers' favourites; but Alberto had long ago won over his
father as well, and not him only, but his uncle also, the Cardinal, who
ruled Rome and the States of the Church like a despot. The great man was
really not sorry that one of his own family should occupy the most
important position in Queen Christina's household; for it is the
instinct of all ex-sovereigns to meddle in politics, and it was not
possible to predict what such a woman might do if she were bored.
Ortensia was a mere girl still, but her eyes had been opened of late,
and she did not fail to notice the impression she had made on the young
man; she was far too much in love with her husband, however, to care for
such admiration, or even to be pleased by it, and somehow the present
case seemed to be of bad omen.
The Queen and her party had already been long in the church, for they
had begun their round on the other side of the entrance, and were just
ending it when Stradella and his wife appeared; now, therefore, after a
few more words, they took themselves off amidst much bowing and scraping
on the part of all except the Queen herself. She smiled to Ortensia, and
nodded familiarly to Stradella, making a beckoning and inviting gesture
to him over her shoulder with her right hand as she turned away.
Alberto looked quickly at the musician, not so much taking him for a
possible rival as for a convenient successor; but the faintly
contemptuous smile that flickered in the musician's face as he saw the
careless signal assuredly did not mean that he was either flattered or
attracted. Ortensia saw the gesture too, and resented it; but a moment
later she smiled to herself at the thought that such a woman as the
Queen could ever win so much as a second thought from Alessandro.
The two had seen enough of San Stefano, and were glad to escape from the
nightmare of horrors depicted on its walls; but before going out they
waited a few minutes in the vestibule to allow the party time to get out
of sight.
'So that is the famous Queen Christina!' Ortensia said, expressing her
surprise and disappointment as soon as they were alone. 'Pina looks more
like a lady!'
CHAPTER XIV
After supper on the next evening Stradella and Ortensia were sitting for
the last time in the beautiful loggia, in the soft light of the young
moon that would soon set behind the Vatican Hill. The air was
wonderfully dry and warm, as it is in Rome sometimes in June when there
has been no rain for three or four weeks.
On the following morning they were to move to the Palazzo Altieri, where
Don Alberto had caused to be prepared for them the apartment that is
entered by a small door on the left, halfway up the grand staircase.
They had been talking of the change.
'It will seem more natural to you to live in a palace again,' Stradella
said in a laughing tone. 'You must have had enough of inns by this
time!'
'The happiest days of my life have been spent in them,' Ortensia
answered with a little sadness. 'I am wondering whether it will ever be
the same again.'
'As long as we are the same there can be no difference, sweetheart. I am
glad you are to be more worthily lodged. Don Alberto was always a very
good-natured fellow and more or less a friend of mine, and he is taking
the greatest pains to make us comfortable in his father's house.'
'I wish he would not take such infinite trouble to stare at me all the
time!'
'Why should he look at anything else when you are in sight?' laughed the
singer. 'Do I? And just consider what a pleasant change it must be for
him after being obliged to gaze at the Queen by the hour together in
visible rapture! The vision must pall sometimes, I should think! I
really do not blame him for showing that he admires you, and he is not
the only one. There is our friend Trombin, for instance, who stands in
adoration staring at you and puffing out his round cheeks whenever we
meet.'
'Oh, he only makes me laugh,' Ortensia answered; 'he is so funny, with
his little pursed-up mouth and his round eyes! I am sure he must be the
kindest-hearted creature in the world. But Don Alberto is quite
different. I am a little afraid of him. I feel as if some day he might
say something to me----'
'What, for instance?' asked Stradella, amused. 'What do you think he may
say?'
'That he thinks me--what shall I say?--very pretty, perhaps!'
'He would only be saying to your face what every one says behind your
back, love! Should you object very much if he told you that he thought
you beautiful?'
'I do not wish to be beautiful for any one but you,' Ortensia answered
softly. 'I wish that every one else might think me hideous, and never
come near me!'
'And that I might seem to every one but you to sing out of tune!'
laughed Stradella.
'At all events they would leave us alone, if they thought so! But I did
not mean it in that way. I think you do not care whether men make love
to me or not!'
She was not quite pleased, and as she leaned her head back against the
wall he saw her pouting lips in the moonlight.
