'Shall we go up to your room at once?' she asked in her soft voice,
bending over him.
Before Ugo could answer, a name he did not know rang out, in a tone he
had never heard. He did not recognise his brother's voice, it was so
full of passion and joy, mingled with amazement, yet trembling with
anxiety.
'Angela!'
Sister Giovanna straightened herself with a spring and stood
transfixed, facing Giovanni. The chair was between them. In an
instant, that was an age to both, sharp lines furrowed her brow, her
cheeks grew hollow, and her pale, parted lips were distorted with
pain. Her face was like the Virgin Mother's, at the foot of the Cross.
It was only for a moment; she threw up her arms, stiff and straight,
as a man who is shot through the heart. One loud cry then, and she
fell backwards.
Pieri was in time and caught her before her head struck the pavement;
but though he was strong and she was slightly made, the impetus of her
fall dragged him down upon one knee. Giovanni could not reach her at
once, for the hospital chair with the bars by which it was carried was
between them and the foremost of the orderlies stood exactly in his
way. He almost knocked the man over as he dashed forwards.
The Princess was already bending over the unconscious Sister, with
every appearance of profound sympathy; she was trying to loosen the
wimple and gorget that confined the nun's cheeks and throat too
closely, but the fastenings were unfamiliar and she could not find
them. Giovanni, pale and determined, pushed her aside as he stooped to
lift the woman he loved. Pieri helped him, and the Princess rose and
stepped back to look on, now that she had shown her willingness to be
of use. Ugo gazed at the scene with wide, astonished eyes, turning
half round in his chair and grasping its arms to hold himself in the
position.
'Open the glass door!' said the Doctor to the nearest orderly.
They carried Sister Giovanna into the cloistered garden, towards the
stone seat by the well, where the three old nuns used to sit in the
afternoon. Before they reached the place, she opened her eyes and met
Giovanni's, already haggard with fear for her, but brightening wildly
as her consciousness returned; for he had believed that she had fallen
dead before him.
Even through the closed glass doors the Mother Superior had heard her
cry and known her voice, for the window had been open to the April
sunshine. The Mother could be swift when there was need, and she was
downstairs and at the well almost as soon as the two men could get
there, walking slowly with their burden. Exerting a strength that
amazed them, she took the young nun into her arms and sat down with
her, and laid the drooping head tenderly to her heart. Her own face
was as still and white as marble, but neither Giovanni nor Pieri saw
her eyes.
'You may go,' she said. 'I will take care of her.'
In the presence of the strange officer she would not ask the Doctor
what had happened.
'She fainted suddenly,' he said.
'Yes. I understand. Leave her to me.'
Pieri saw that Giovanni could not move of his own free will; so he
passed his arm through the young man's and whispered in his ear while
he drew him away.
'You must obey for the present,' he said. 'She is in no danger.'
For he had understood the truth at once, as was easy enough; and
Giovanni went with him, looking back again and again and unable to
speak, not yet knowing all.
When the Princess had seen the Mother Superior crossing the garden,
she had drawn back within the door, and the Doctor shut it when
Giovanni had come in. The woman of the world had believed that she
could still face the man after what she had done, and perhaps find
words that would hurt him; but when she saw his eyes, she was
frightened, for she had known him well. When he went straight towards
her she made one step backwards, in bodily fear of him; but he spoke
quietly and not rudely.
'It was your duty to warn us both,' he said.
That was all, but he stood looking at her, and her fright grew; for
men who live long in the wilderness gather a strength that may inspire
terror when they come back to the world. The Princess turned from him
without answering, and left the hall.
One of the orderlies had called another nurse from within, and Ugo was
taken to his room, still surprised, but already understanding, as
Pieri did. The latter soon took his leave, the nurse followed him for
instructions, and the brothers were alone together.
'When I left her,' Giovanni said, 'we were engaged to be married. I
wrote to her just before I sailed, but she has not received the letter
yet.'
'What shall you do?' asked Ugo, watching him with sympathy.
'Do? Marry her, of course! Do you suppose I have changed my mind?'
'But she is evidently a nun,' objected Ugo. 'She must have taken
irrevocable vows. These nurses are not like Sisters of Charity, I
believe, who make their promise for a year only and then are free
during one night, to decide whether they will renew it.'
Giovanni Severi laughed, but not lightly, nor carelessly, nor
scornfully. It was the short, energetic laughter of a determined man
who does not believe anything impossible.
CHAPTER XIII
After a long time, Sister Giovanna lifted her head very slowly, sat
up, and passed her hand over her eyes, while the Mother Superior still
kept one arm round her, thinking that she might faint again at any
moment. But she did not.
'Thank you,' she said, with difficulty. 'You are very good to me,
Mother. I think I can walk now.'
'Not yet.'
The elder woman's hand was on her wrist, keeping her in her seat.
'I must go back to my work,' she said, but not much above a whisper.
'Not yet. When you are better, you must come to my room for a little
while and rest there.'
Sister Giovanna looked old then, for her face was grey and the deep
lines of suffering were like furrows of age; she seemed much older
than Mother Veronica, who was over forty. A minute or two passed and
she made another effort, and this time the Mother helped her. She was
weak but not exactly unsteady; her feet were like leaden weights that
she had to lift at every step.
When they were alone in the small room and the door was shut, the
Mother Superior closed the window, too; for the cloister was very
resonant and voices carried far. She made Sister Giovanna sit in the
old horse-hair easy-chair, leaning her head against the round black
and white worsted cushion that was hung across the back by a cotton
cord. She herself sat in the chair she used at her writing-table.
She did not know what had happened in the hall, but what she saw told
her that the Sister's fainting fit had not been due only to a passing
physical weakness. She herself seemed to be suffering when she spoke,
and not one of all the many Sisters and novices who had come to her in
distress, at one time or another, had ever seen her so much touched by
pity, so humane, forbearing, and kind.
'If you would like me to understand what has happened, my dear child,
you can trust me,' she said. 'If you would rather keep your secret,
tell me if I can help you.'
Sister Giovanna looked at her gratefully and tried to speak, but it
was hard; not that she was choking, or near to shedding tears, but her
lips felt stiff and cold, like a dying man's, and would not form
words. But presently they came at intervals, one by one, though not
distinctly, and so low that it was not easy to hear them.
Yet Mother Veronica understood. Giovanni Severi, the man Angela had
loved, the man who had been called dead for five years--he had come
back from death--she had seen him with his brother--he had known her.
She was not going to faint again, but she sank forward, bending almost
double, her hands on the arms of the chair, her young head bowed with
woe. There was something awful in her suffering, now that she was
silent.
The Mother Superior only said three words, but her voice broke as she
pronounced the last.
'My poor child----'
Her lips were livid, but she ruled the rising storm and sat quite
still, her fingers twisted together and straining on her knee. If
Sister Giovanna had looked up, she would have wondered how mere
sympathy could be so deep and stirring. But she could not; her own
struggle was too desperate. Minutes passed before she spoke again, and
then there was a change in her, for her voice was much more steady.
'It was so easy to be good when he was dead.'
She had been happy an hour ago, yesterday, last week, working and
waiting for the blessed end, believing that he had died to serve his
country and that God would let him meet her in heaven. Why had he come
back now, too late for earth, but a lifetime too soon for heaven? It
had been so easy to be strong and brave and faithful for his sake,
when he was dead. It was little enough that she had said, but each
word had meant a page of her life. Mother Veronica heard, and she
understood.
'Pray,' she said, after a long time; and her voice came as from very
far away, for she too had told her story in that one syllable.
Human nature turned upon her, rebellious, with a rending cry.
'I cannot! He is alive! He is here! Don't you understand? How can I
pray? For what? That he may die again? God of mercy! And if not that,
can I pray to be free? Free? Free from what? Free to do what? To die?
Not even that! Others will be taken, but I shall live--thirty, forty,
fifty years, knowing that he is alive--knowing that I may see him any
day!'
The elder woman's white fingers twined round each other more
desperately, for Sister Giovanna's face was turned full to her now,
and their eyes were meeting; the young nun's were fierce with pain,
but the Mother's were strangely lustreless and dull.
'No,' she said, mechanically answering the last words, 'you must not
see him.'
'Not see him once?'
Sister Giovanna leaned far forwards, grasping the arms of the
easy-chair, and her voice came thick and hoarse. Did the woman with the
marble face think that she, too, was made of stone? Not see the man she
had loved, who had been suddenly, violently dead, who was alive again,
and had come back to her? The Mother could not be in earnest! If she
was, why did she not answer now? Why was she sitting there, with that
strange look, silently wringing her hands?
Even in her cruel distress Sister Giovanna felt a sort of wonder.
Perhaps the Mother had not meant what she said, and would not speak
lest she should contradict herself. The mere thought was a hope;
whether for good or evil the tortured girl knew not, but it loosed her
tongue.
'He will come to me!' she cried. 'He will, I tell you! You do not know
him! Did you hear his voice as I did when he called me? Did you see
his face? Could walls or bars keep such a man from the woman he loves?
I must face him myself, and to face him I must kill something in
me--cut it out, tear it up from its roots--I am only a woman after all!
A nun can be a woman still, a weak woman, who has loved a man very,
very dearly----'
'Oh, Angela, hush! For the love of Heaven, my child, my child!'
To Sister Giovanna's unspeakable amazement, the unbending nature was
breaking down, the marble saint, with the still white face, who had
bidden her pray, and never see Giovanni again. She felt herself lifted
from her seat and clasped in a despairing embrace; she felt the small
nervous frame shaking in the storm of an emotion she could not
understand, though she knew it was as great as her own and as terrible
to bear, and that the heart that beat against hers was breaking, too.
Neither shed a tear; tears would have been heavenly refreshment, but
they would not come. Another moment and Angela felt herself sinking
back into her chair, and when she opened her eyes the Mother Superior
was at the table, half seated, half lying across it, on the heaps of
papers and account-books, and her outstretching hands clasped the foot
of the old crucifix beside the leaden inkstand.
'Miserere mei, Domine!'
The voice of her prayer broke the stillness like a silver bell. Then
she began to recite the greatest of the penitential psalms.
'Out of the depths have I cried unto Thee, O Lord: Lord, hear my
voice.'
And by long habit, yet with some dim hope of peace, Sister Giovanna
responded:
'Let Thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications.'
They said it to the end, verse answering verse, and the prayer of the
King-Poet stilled the throbbing of hurts too deep to heal.
Two hours after she had fainted in the hall, Sister Giovanna was doing
her work in the hospital again as usual. A wonderful amount of
physical resistance can be got out of moral conviction, and there is
no such merciful shelter for mental distress as a uniform, from the
full dress of a field-marshal to a Sister of Charity's cornet.
Of the persons who had been witnesses of the scene, the Doctor and Ugo
Severi could be trusted, and Princess Chiaromonte was too much afraid of
Giovanni to brew gossip about his love-affair. There remained the two
orderlies, who could not be prevented from telling the story to their
wives and friends if they liked; but they were trusty, middle-aged men
of good character; they shared the affectionate admiration for Sister
Giovanna which almost every one in the Convent hospital felt for her,
and they would be the very last to say a word to her discredit. These
circumstances account well enough for the fact that the story did not
get into the newspapers at the time.
Sister Giovanna went back to her work, but she did not go near Ugo
Severi, and she gave strict orders that his brother, if he came to see
him again during the day, was to be accompanied to the door of the
room by an orderly. As Ugo had swallowed nothing but a cup of black
coffee before coming to the hospital, and was therefore in a condition
to take ether, Pieri had given notice that he would operate on the
injured foot at two o'clock. There would be no need for the presence
of the supervising nurse, who would have no difficulty in keeping out
of Giovanni's way for the present, as he would certainly not be
allowed to roam the hospital in search of her.
She meant to meet him once and alone, no matter how she might be
hindered, and nothing that the Mother Superior or Monsignor
Saracinesca could say should make it impossible. She knew that he
would try every means of seeing her, and when he succeeded in making
an opportunity which she could accept, she would take it, come what
might; till then, she must wait, and while she was waiting she would
find the strength she needed.
That was her plan, and it was simple enough. She might be mistaken
about many questions, but nothing could make that seem wrong which her
conscience told her was right. And it was right to see him once; she
was sure of it. The rest was confused and uncertain and she took no
thought what she should say; she only knew she must make him
understand, though it would be hard, and when that was done, she would
not see him again while she lived.
She meant to make that final parting a certainty by going to Rangoon
with the next mission; nothing should change her determination now.
Her feet were heavy that day, and her voice was dull and muffled when
she gave her orders; but she made no mistakes. Many a man has fought
more stubbornly and bravely after a wound and a fall than at the
outset, and few men could tell themselves that they were braver than
Sister Giovanna was when she recovered control of her actions after
the first stunning shock.
She stayed in her office as much of the time as possible. In due
course the assistant head-nurse came to report that Pieri had finished
his work and that Captain Ugo had recovered well from the ether; his
brother was with him and would stay till eight o'clock, the hour at
which all visitors were required to leave the hospital except in cases
of extreme danger. Sister Giovanna nodded and wrote a few lines in the
day-book.
It was then half-past three. Clearly Giovanni's plan was to spend as
many hours as possible under the roof, in the hope of seeing her; for
though the operation had been a long one, requiring the skill of a
great surgeon to perform it well, Ugo was in no danger from it, and it
might be supposed that a man who had just come back from such an
experience as Giovanni had lived through would wish to see a few old
friends on the first day of his return, or would be obliged, at the
very least, to attend to some necessary business. Sister Giovanna did
not know that his return was being purposely kept a secret from the
public press, and that he was far safer from reporters while he stayed
in the Convent hospital than he could be in his lodging.
At five o'clock the door of her office opened, and to her surprise she
saw Monsignor Saracinesca standing before her, hat in hand. She could
not remember that she had ever seen him there before, but it was an
office, after all, and there was no reason why he should not come to
it if he had business with her. She rose to receive him. He shut the
door, which was the only one, bowed gravely, and took one of the two
spare rush-bottomed chairs and seated himself, before he spoke.
'The Mother Superior sent for me,' he said, 'and I have been with her
an hour. She has asked me to come to you. Are you at leisure?'
'Unless I am called. I am on duty.'
He noticed the muffled tone and the slowness of her speech. She sat
facing him, on the other side of the plain table, her open report-book
before her.
'You will not blame the Mother Superior for sending me, Sister. She is
in the deepest distress for you. You must have seen that, when you
spoke with her this morning.'
'She was more than kind.'
Monsignor Saracinesca sighed, but the nun did not notice it. Now that
she knew why he had come, she needed all her strength and courage
again.
He went on quietly with his short explanation. Mother Veronica had
told him of what had happened in the hall; he had known the rest long
ago from Sister Giovanna herself. That was the substance, and he
wasted no words. Then he paused, and she knew what was coming next,
for he would speak of a possible meeting; but how he would regard that
she could not guess, and she waited steadily for the blow if it was to
be one.
'The Mother Superior thinks that you should not see him,' he said.
'I know. She told me so.'
'I do not agree with her,' said Monsignor Saracinesca slowly.
The nun turned her face from the afternoon light, but said nothing;
with the greatest sacrifice of her life before her she should not feel
joy rising like the dawn in her eyes, at the mere thought of seeing
the man whose love she must renounce.
'We are human,' said the churchman, 'and our victories must be human,
to be worth anything. It was in His humanity that Christ suffered and
overcame. It is not victory to slink from the fight and shut oneself
up in a fortress that is guarded by others. Men and women must be good
men and women in this world if they hope to be saints hereafter, and
there is no such thing as inactive goodness.'
Sister Giovanna looked at him again, but still she did not speak.
'Though I am a priest,' continued Monsignor Saracinesca, 'I am a man
of the world in the sense of having belonged to it, and I now live
less apart from it than I could wish, though it is not such a
thoroughly bad place as those say who do not know it. I do not feel
that I got rid of all obligations to those who still belong to it when
I was ordained, and I do not think that when you took the veil in a
working order, you dropped all obligation to the persons with whom you
had lived till then. In doing so, you might be depriving some one else
of a right.'
Sister Giovanna listened to this exposition in silence and tried to
follow it.
'In my opinion,' the prelate went on, 'Giovanni Severi has a just
claim to see you. I speak under authority and I may be wrong, but it
can only be a matter of judgment and of opinion, and since your Mother
Superior has asked for mine, I give it as well as I can. You are not a
cloistered nun, Sister. There is no reason why you should not receive
a friend whom you have believed to be dead for years and who has
unexpectedly come back to life.'
'Back to the life I left for his sake!'
Again she looked away from the light, but her face could not turn
whiter than it was.
'It was terribly sudden,' said Monsignor Saracinesca, after a moment's
pause. 'You will no doubt wait a few days before seeing him, till you
feel quite able to face what must be a very painful interview.'
'I am not afraid of it now. I was weak when we recognised each other.
I cannot quite remember--I heard him call me and I saw his eyes----'
'And you must have fainted. You were carried out to the well at once.'
'Who carried me?' asked the nun quickly.
'Doctor Pieri and Giovanni Severi.'
She made a slight movement.
'He carried me!'
She spoke almost unconsciously, and a very faint glow rose through her
paleness, as when white glass is warmed an instant in the mouth of the
furnace and then drawn back and quickly cooled again.
'Shall I talk with him before you meet?' asked the churchman
presently.
Sister Giovanna did not answer at once; she seemed to be thinking.
'You know better than any one what my life has been,' she said at
last. 'It was to you that I went for advice five years ago, and again
before I took the veil. If you had thought it even distantly possible
that he might be alive, you would not have let me take final vows.'
'Heaven forbid!' answered Monsignor Saracinesca very earnestly.
'Though I believed him dead, you knew that I loved him with all my
heart.'
'Yes. As dearly as when you had last seen him alive.'
'I love him still. Is that wrong?'
'No.'
He said the word without hesitation, in all sincerity and true
conviction, but the nun had expected another answer; a quick movement
of the head showed that she was surprised.
'Are you sure?' she asked in a low and wondering tone.
'Yes, because I am sure that your love for him is as innocent as it
ever was. The religious life is not meant to kill human affection.
Saint Benedict loved his sister Scholastica devotedly; Saint Francis
was probably more sincerely attached to Saint Clare than to any living
person.'
'I only know that I love him as dearly as ever,' said Sister Giovanna.
The churchman looked at her keenly for a moment, and she did not avoid
his eyes.
'Would you break your vows for him?' he asked, with sudden directness.
The nun started as if he had struck her and half rose from her chair.
'Break my vows?' she cried, her eyes blazing with indignation.
But Monsignor Saracinesca only nodded and laid his thin hand flat on
the table, towards her. She sank to her seat again.
'Then I know that, although you may love him more than any one in the
world, you do not love him better than the work you have promised to
do.'
'Heaven forbid!'
He had used the very same expression a few moments earlier, but with a
different tone; for him it had been an asseveration of good faith, but
with her it was more like a prayer. She had resented his question as
if it had been an insult, but when he showed how much he trusted her,
she began to distrust herself. She would die the martyr's death rather
than break her vows in deed, but she was too diffident of her own
womanhood not to fear a fall from the dignity of heartfelt resignation
to the inward ignominy of an earthly regret. Besides, 'the work she
had promised to do' had been promised for his sake, not for its own;
not for any gain to her soul, but in the earnest hope that it might
profit his, by God's mercy. Since he was not dead, but alive, the
chief purpose of it died with his return to life. She did not love the
work she had promised to do more than she loved him; that was not
true, and never had been. All had been for him--her vow, her work, and
her prayers. Heaven forbid, indeed, that she should now set him before
them; yet it was hard not to do so and there was only one possible
way; in a changed sense they must be given for him still, and for his
salvation, else she could not give at all.
Monsignor Saracinesca had watched her progress from her noviciate to
her present position of responsibility, and had often spoken of her
with the Mother Superior. He would not have advised every nun to do
what he thought best in her case. There was not another in the
community, except the Mother herself, whom he would have trusted so
fully. But, being what she was, his honourable sense of justice to a
man who had suffered much and must suffer more impelled him to act as
he did. As he himself said, it was a matter of opinion and judgment,
and his own approved the course. Those may blame him who think
otherwise, but no one can find fault with Sister Giovanna for
following his advice; she had a right to believe that it was the best,
and as for herself, she had never hesitated. The mere suggestion that
she should not see Giovanni at least once and alone looked to her
outrageous and contrary to all sense, as perhaps it was.
Monsignor Saracinesca would see him first and arrange the meeting. He
thought it should take place in the cloistered garden.
'Why not here, in my office?' asked the nun.
But the churchman objected. If the two were to talk together, out of
hearing, they must not be out of sight. Never, under any
circumstances, should any one be able to say that there had been any
secrecy about their interview. He himself would bring Giovanni to the
place and the Mother Superior would accompany the nun. He and the
Mother would withdraw into the hall and wait until Sister Giovanna
dismissed Severi. The Mother would then join her, and Monsignor
Saracinesca would go away with Giovanni.
In order to forestall evil speaking more effectually, the two should
meet on the afternoon of the day on which the nun's week of duty as
supervising nurse came to an end. On that evening she would go away to
nurse a private case, and before that patient was recovered, Ugo
Severi would certainly be well enough to go home, and Giovanni's daily
visits to the hospital would have ceased. It would thus be easy to
prove that after their only interview, in what might be called a
public place, they had not been within the same walls at the same
time.
No one who has watched the politics of the so-called 'socialist' party
in Rome during the past twenty years will wonder at these precautions
nor even call them exaggerated. To all intents and purposes the
'Vatican question' has ceased to exist; the Italian Government may
fairly be said to be at peace with the Church; the old bitterness may
survive amongst certain prejudiced people, chiefly in small towns, but
the spirit of this time is a spirit of good-will and mutual
forbearance, and the forces that were once so fiercely opposed
actually work together for the common good in many more cases than the
world knows of. The first article of the Italian Constitution states
that the religion of the Kingdom is that of the Roman Catholic Church;
it is, and it will continue to be, and no attempt will ever be made on
the part of the Monarchy to change or to cancel that opening clause.
The danger to which the Church is exposed lies in another quarter, and
threatens not only the Church, but Christianity in all its forms; not
only Christianity, but the Monarchy; and not the Monarchy only, but
all constitutional and civilised government. It is anarchy; and though
it boasts itself to be socialism, true socialists disclaim it and its
doings and all its opinions. If it can be so far honoured as to be
counted as a party, it is the party that murdered King Humbert, that
assassinated the Empress of Austria, and that would sooner or later
kill the Pope, if he left the safe refuge which some persons still
insist on calling his prison.
It is the party that continually spies upon all religious and
charitable institutions in Rome, and does not hesitate to invent
stories of crime outright when it fails to detect one of those little
flaws which its press magnifies to stains of abomination.
Monsignor Saracinesca understood these things better than the others
concerned, and at least as well as any one in Rome. As for Giovanni,
he had known him a little in former days and took him to be a man of
honour, who would submit to any conditions necessary for protecting
the nun from calumny. But he could hardly believe that the young
officer's feelings had undergone no change in five years, for he
judged men as most men judge each other. It was one thing to fall in
love with a charming young girl in her first season; it was quite
another to love her faithfully for five years, without ever seeing her
or hearing from her, and to feel no disappointment on finding her as
much changed as Angela was now, pale, sorrow-worn, and of no
particular age. The true bloom of youth is something real, but it
rarely lasts more than two years; it is as subtle and indescribable as
the bloom of growing roses, which is gone within an hour after they
are cut, though their beauty may be preserved for many days. There was
the nun's habit, too, and the veil and wimple, proclaiming another and
a greater change from which there was no return.
Ippolito Saracinesca had never been in love, even in his early youth; it
was no wonder that he was mistaken in such a man as Giovanni Severi. The
only danger he reckoned with lay in Sister Giovanna's own heart, and he
felt that he could count on her courage, her self-respect, and most of
all on her profoundly religious nature. No danger is ever overcome
without danger, said Mimos. In the case of such a woman it was better,
for her sake, to accept such risk as there might be in a single
interview which must be decisive and final, than to let her live on
haunted by disturbing memories and harassed by regret.
CHAPTER XIV
It was raining when Giovanni and Monsignor Saracinesca rang at the
door of the Convent. The Mother Superior had ordered two rush-bottomed
chairs to be brought out of the hall and placed under the shelter of
the cloister just on one side of the glass door; for Sister Giovanna
was to receive a visit, as she explained, from an officer who had
known her father and had business with her. Such things had happened
before in the community, and the lay sister was not surprised. She
carried the chairs out and set them in what she considered a proper
position, about two yards apart and both facing the garden. The rain
fell softly and steadily, the sky was of an even dove-grey, and the
smell of the damp earth and the early spring flowers filled the
cloister.
Giovanni was a soldier and would impose his military punctuality upon
the prelate, who, like most churchmen, had a clearer idea of eternity
than of definite time. As the Convent clock was striking, therefore,
the Mother Superior and Sister Giovanna came down the narrow stairs,
for they had been together a quarter of an hour, though they had
scarcely exchanged half-a-dozen words. They walked slowly round under
the vaulted cloister, the Mother on the right, the nun on the left,
according to the rigid custom, and they had just turned the last
corner and were in sight of the two chairs when the glass door opened.
Monsignor Saracinesca's voice was heard.
'Remember what I have said. I trust you, and you know that the
cloister is open to every one.'
'Yes,' Giovanni answered, as both appeared on the threshold.
They saw the two nuns already near and made a few steps to meet them.
Monsignor Saracinesca greeted the Mother, who bent her head as she
answered him; Giovanni stood still, his eyes fixed on Angela's face.
But she looked steadily down at the flagstones, and her hands were
hidden under the broad scapular of white cloth that hung straight down
from under her gorget to her feet.
There are no awkward silences when churchmen or nuns meet, still less
if the meeting takes place by appointment, for each knows exactly what
he or she is expected to say and says it, deliberately and without
hesitation. In less than a minute after they had met, the Mother and
Monsignor Saracinesca entered the hall together and closed the glass
door after them. The soldier and the nun were face to face at last.
As soon as Giovanni heard the door shut he made one step forward and
stretched out both his hands, thinking to take hers. She made no
movement, but raised her eyes, and when he saw them, they were still
and dull. Then she slowly held out her right hand, and it was cold and
inert when he took it. She drew back at once and sat down, and he took
the other chair, bringing it a little nearer, and turning it so that
he could see her. He was cruelly disappointed, but he was the first to
speak.
'I thought you were glad to know that I am alive,' he said coldly,
'but I see that you were only frightened, the other day. I am sorry to
have startled you.'
She steadied herself before answering.
'Yes, I was startled. Your letter did not reach me till afterwards.'
The garden was whirling before her as if she were being put under
ether, and the little twisted columns that upheld the arches of the
cloister chased each other furiously, till she thought she was going
to fall from her chair. She could not hear what he said next, for a
surging roar filled her ears as when the surf breaks at an angle on a
long beach and sounds one deep, uninterrupted note. He was explaining
why the mail steamer had not reached Italy several days before him,
but she did not understand; she only knew when he ceased speaking.
'It is the inevitable--always the inevitable,' she said, making a
desperate effort and yet not saying anything she wished to say.
But her tone told him how deeply she was moved, and his fiery energy
broke out.
'Nothing is inevitable!' he cried. 'There is nothing that cannot be
undone, if I can live to undo it!'
That was not what she expected, if she expected anything, but it
brought back her controlling self that had been dazed and wandering
and had left her almost helpless. She started and turned her face full
to his, but drawing back in her chair.
'What do you mean?' she asked.
'Angela!'
The appeal of love was in his voice, as he bent far forward, but she
raised her hand in warning.
'No, "Sister Giovanna," please,' she said, checking him, though
gently.
He felt the slight rebuke, and remembered that the place was public to
the community.
'It was not by chance that you took my name with the veil,' he said,
almost in a whisper. 'Did you love me then?'
'I believed that you had been dead two years,' answered the nun
slowly.
'But did you love me still, when I was dead?'
'Yes.'
She did not lower her voice, for she was not ashamed, but she looked
down. He forgot her rebuke, and called her by her old name again, that
had meant life and hope and everything to him through years of
captivity.
'Angela!' He did not heed her gesture now, nor the quick word she
spoke. 'Yes, I will call you Angela--you love me now----'
She checked him again, with more energy.
'Hush! If you cannot be reasonable, I shall go away!'
'Reasonable!'
There was contempt in his tone, but he sat upright again and said no
more.
'Listen to me,' said Sister Giovanna, finding some strength in the
small advantage she had just gained. 'I have not let you come here in
order to torment you or cheat you, and I mean to tell you the truth.
You have a right to know it, and I still have the right to tell it,
because there is nothing in it of which I am ashamed. Will you hear me
quietly, whatever I say?'
'Yes, I will. But I cannot promise not to answer, when you have done.'
'There is no answer to what I am going to say. It is to be final.'
'We shall see,' said Giovanni gravely, though with no conviction.
But the nun was satisfied, for he was clearly willing to listen. The
meeting had disturbed her peace even more than she had expected, but
she had done her best during several days to prepare herself for it,
and had found strength to decide what she must say, and to repeat it
over and over again till she knew it by heart.
'You were reported to be dead,' she began--'killed with the rest of
them. You had your share in the great military funeral, and I, and all
the world, believed that you were buried with your comrades. Your name
is engraved with theirs upon their tomb, in the roll of honour, as
that of a man who perished in his country's service. I went there with
Madame Bernard before I began my noviciate, and I went again, for the
last time, before I took the veil. I had loved you living and I loved
you dead.'
Giovanni moved as if he were going to speak, but she would not let
him.
'No, hear me!' she cried anxiously. 'I offered God my life and my
strength for your sake, and if I have done any good here in five
years, as novice and nun, it has been in the hope that it might be
accepted for you, if your soul needed it. Though you may not believe
in such things, do you at least understand me?'
'Indeed I do, and I am grateful--most grateful.'
She was a little disappointed by his tone, for he spoke with an
evident effort.
'It was gladly given,' she said. 'But now you have come back to
life----'
She hesitated. With all her courage and strength, she could not quite
control her memory, and the words she had prepared so carefully were
suddenly confused. Giovanni completed the sentence for her in his own
way.
'I have come to life to find you dead for me, as I have been dead for
you. Is that what you were going to say?'
She was still hesitating.
'Was it that?' he insisted.
'No,' she answered, at last. 'Not dead for you--alive for you.'
He would have caught at a straw, and the joy came into his face as he
quickly held out his hand to her; but she would not take it: hers were
both hidden under her white cloth scapular and she shrank from him.
The light went out of his eyes.
'I might have known!' he said, deeply disappointed. 'You do not mean
it. I suppose you will explain that you are alive to pray for me!'
'You promised to listen quietly, whatever I might say.'
'Yes.' He controlled himself. 'I will,' he added, after a moment. 'Go
on.'
'I am not changed,' said Sister Giovanna, 'but my life is. That is
what I meant by the inevitable. No person can undo what I have
done'--Giovanni moved impatiently--'no power can loose me from my vows.'
In spite of himself, the man's temper broke out.
'You are mad,' he answered roughly, 'or else you do not know that you
can be free.'
'Hush!' cried the nun, trying once more to check him. 'Your
promise--remember it!'
'I break it! I will not listen meekly to such folly! Before you took
the vow, you had given me your word, as I gave you mine, that we would
be man and wife, and since I am not dead, no promise or oath made
after that is binding! I know that you love me still, as you did then,
and if you will not try to free yourself, then by all you believe, and
by all I honour, I will set you free!'
It was a challenge if it was not a threat, and Sister Giovanna
defended herself as she could. But she was painfully conscious that
something in her responded with a thrill to the cry of the pursuer.
Nevertheless, she answered with a firm refusal.
'You cannot make me do what I will not,' she said.
'I can and I will!' he retorted vehemently. 'It is monstrous that you
should be bound by a promise made in ignorance, under a wretched
mistake, on a false report that I was dead!'
'We were not even formally betrothed----'
'We loved each other,' interrupted Giovanni, 'and we had told each
other so. That is enough. We belong to each other just as truly as if
we were man and wife----'
'Even if we were,' said the nun, interrupting him in her turn, 'if I
had taken my vows in the belief that my husband had been dead for
years, I would not ask to be released!'
He stared at her, his temper suddenly chilled in amazement.
'But if it were a mistake,' he objected, 'if the Pope offered you a
dispensation, would you refuse it?'
Sister Giovanna was prepared, for she had thought of that.
'If you had given a man your word of honour to pay a debt you owed
him, would you break your promise if you suddenly found that you could
use the money in another way, which would give you the keenest
pleasure?'
'That is quite different! How can you ask such an absurd question?'
'It is not absurd, and the case is not so different as you think. I
have given my word to God in heaven, and I must pay my debt.'
Giovanni was indignant again, and rebelled.
'You used to tell me that your God was just!'
'And I have heard you say that your only god was honour!' retorted the
nun.
'Yes!' he answered hotly. 'It is! Honour teaches that the first promise
given must be fulfilled before all others!'
'I have been taught that vows made to God must not be broken.'
She rose, as if the speech were final. Though they had been talking only
a few minutes, she already felt that she could not bear much more.
'Surely you are not going already!' he cried, starting to his feet.
Sister Giovanna turned so that she was face to face with him.
'What is there left to say?' she asked, with a great effort.
'Everything! I told you that I would answer when you had finished, and
now that you have nothing left to say, you must hear me! You said you
would----'
'I said that there could be no answer.' Nevertheless she waited,
motionless.
'But there is! The answer is that I will free you from the slavery to
which you have sold your soul! The answer is, I love you, and it is
yourself I love, the woman you are now, not the memory of your shadow
from long ago, but you, you, your very self!'
Half out of his mind, he tried to seize her by the arm, to draw her to
him; but he only caught her sleeve, and dropped it as she sprang back
with a lightness and maiden grace that almost drove him mad. She drew
herself up, offended and hurt.
'Remember what I am, and where you are!'
Giovanni's manner changed so suddenly that she would have been
suspicious, if she had not been too much disturbed to reason. She
fancied that she still controlled him.
'You are right,' he said; 'I beg your pardon. Only tell me when I may
see you again.'
'Not for a long time--not till you can give me your word that you will
control yourself. Till then, we must say good-bye.'
He was so quiet, all at once, that it was easier to say the word than
she had expected.
'No,' he answered, 'not good-bye, for even if you will not see me, I
shall be near you.'
'Near? Where?'
'I am living in my brother's rooms at the Magazine. I am in charge till
he gets well. I asked permission to take his place on the day I arrived,
from the Minister himself.'
'You have taken his place!' She could not keep her anxiety out of her
voice.
'Yes, and I hope to get a shot at the fellow who wounded Ugo. But the
post suits me, for the upper part of this house is in sight of my
windows. If you look out towards the river, you can see where I live.'
He spoke so gently that she lingered instead of leaving him at once, as
she had meant to do.
'And besides,' he went on, in the same tone, 'I shall come here every
day until my brother can go home. I may meet you at any moment, in going
to his room. You will not refuse to speak to me, will you?'
He smiled. He seemed quite changed within a few moments. But she shook
her head.
'You will not see me here again,' she answered, 'for my week's turn as
supervising nurse will be over this evening and I am going to a private
case.'
'To-night?' Giovanni asked, with a little surprise.
'Yes, to-night.'
'Do you mean to say that you do not even have a day's rest after being
on duty a whole week? What a life! But they must give you a few hours,
surely! What time do you go off duty, and at what time do you go to your
new patient? I suppose they send for you?'
'Yes, at about eight o'clock. That is the usual time, but I never know
long beforehand. Arrangements of that sort are all made by the Mother
Superior.'
It did not seem unnatural that he should ask questions about her
occupation, now that he was calmer, nor could she think it wrong to
answer them. Any one might have listened to what they were saying.
'I daresay you do not even know where you are going this evening?'
Giovanni said.
She thought that he was talking only to keep her with him a little
longer. Overstrained as she had been, it was a relief to exchange a few
words quietly before parting from him.
'It is true,' she answered, after a moment's thought. 'I daresay the
Mother Superior mentioned the name of the family, but if she did I have
forgotten it. I shall get my instructions before I leave the house, as
usual. I only know that it is a new case.'
'Yes,' Giovanni said, as if it did not interest him further. 'All the
same, it is a shame that you should be made to work so hard! Before I
go, tell me that you have forgiven me for losing my head just now. I
think you have, but I want to hear you say so. Will you?'
It seemed little enough to forgive. Sister Giovanna felt so much
relieved by his change of manner that she was even able to smile
faintly. If he would always be as gentle, she could perhaps ask leave to
see him again in six months. Now that the storm was over, it was a pure
and innocent happiness to be with him.
'You will not do it again,' she said simply. 'Of course I forgive you.'
'Thank you. It is all I can expect, since you have told me that I was
asking the impossible. You see Madame Bernard sometimes, do you not?'
'Yes. Almost every week.'
'She will give me news of you. I suppose I must not send you a message
by her. That would be against the rules!'
'The message might be!' Sister Giovanna actually smiled again. 'But if
it is not, there is no reason why she should not bring me a greeting
from you.'
'But not a letter?'
'No. I would not take it from her. It would have to be given to the
Mother Superior. If she were willing to receive it at all, it would be
her duty to read it, and she would judge whether it should be given to
me or not.'
'Is that the rule?' Giovanni asked, more indifferently than she had
expected.
'Yes. It is the rule in our order. If it were not, who could prevent any
one from writing to a nun?'
'I was not finding fault with it. I must not keep you standing here any
longer. If you will not sit down and talk a little more, I had better be
going.'
'Yes. You have been here long enough, I think.'
He did not press her. He was so submissive that if he had begged
permission to stay a few minutes more she would have consented, and she
wished he would, when she saw him holding out his hand to say good-bye;
but she was too well pleased at having dominated his wild temper to make
a suggestion which might betray weakness in herself.
She took his hand and was a little surprised to find it as cold as hers
had been when he came; but his face was not pale--she forgot that five
years of Africa had bronzed it too much for paleness--and he was very
quiet and collected. She went to the door of the hall with him and
opened it before he could do so for himself.
They parted almost like mere acquaintances, he bowing on the step, she
bending her head. The Mother Superior and Monsignor Saracinesca had been
sitting by the table, talking, but both had risen and come forward as
soon as the pair appeared outside the glass door. It all passed off very
satisfactorily, and the Mother Superior gave a little sigh of relief
when the churchman and the soldier went away together, leaving her and
Sister Giovanna standing in the hall. She felt that Monsignor
Saracinesca had been right, after all, in approving the meeting, and
that she had been mistaken in thinking that it must endanger the nun's
peace.
She said nothing, but she was quietly pleased, and a rare, sweet smile
softened her marble features. She asked no questions about what had
passed, being quite sure that all was well, and that if there had ever
been anything to fear, it was gone.
The prelate and Giovanni walked along the quiet street in silence for
some distance; then Severi stopped suddenly, as many Italians do when
they are going to say something important.
'You will help me, I am sure,' he said, speaking impetuously from the
first. 'Though I never knew you well in old times, I always felt that
you were friendly. You will not allow her to ruin both our lives, will
you?'
'What sort of help do you want from me?' asked the tall churchman,
bending his eyes to the energetic young face.
'The simplest thing in the world!' Giovanni answered. 'We were engaged
to be married when I left with that ill-fated expedition. She thought me
dead. She must be released from her vows at once! That is all.'
'It is out of the question,' answered Monsignor Saracinesca, with
supernal calm.
'Out of the question?' Giovanni frowned angrily. 'Do you mean that it
cannot be done? But it is only common justice! She is as much my wife as
if you had married us and I had left her at the altar to go to Africa!
You cannot be in earnest!'
'I am. In the first place, there is no ground for granting a
dispensation.'
'No ground?' cried Severi indignantly. 'We loved each other, we meant to
marry! Is that no reason?'
'No. You were not even formally betrothed, either before your parish
priest or the mayor. Without a solemn promise in the proper form and
before witnesses, there is no binding engagement to marry. That is not
only canonical law, but Italian common law, too.'
'We had told each other,' Giovanni objected. 'That was enough.'
'You are wrong,' answered Monsignor Saracinesca gently. 'The Church will
do nothing that the law would not do, and the law would not release
Sister Giovanna, or any one else, from a legal obligation taken under
the same circumstances as the religious one she has assumed.'
'What do you mean?'
'This. If, instead of becoming a nun, Angela had married another man
after you were lost, Italian law would not annul the marriage in order
that she might become your wife.'
'Of course not!'
'Then why should the Church annul an obligation which is quite as solemn
as marriage?'
Giovanni thought he had caught the churchman in a fallacy.
'I beg your pardon,' he replied. 'I was taught as a boy that marriage is
a sacrament, but I never heard that taking the veil was one!'
'Quite right, in principle. In reality, it is considered, for women, the
equivalent of ordination, and therefore as being of the nature of a
sacrament.'
'I am not a theologian, to discuss equivalents,' retorted Giovanni
roughly.
'Very true, but a man who knows nothing of mathematics may safely accept
the statement of a mathematician about a simple problem. That is not the
point, however. If you remember, I said that "under the same
circumstances" the Church would not do what the law would not. The
Church considers a nun's final vows to be as binding under its
regulations as the law considers that any civil contract is. The
"circumstances" are therefore exactly similar.'
Giovanni was no match for his cool antagonist in an argument. He cut the
discussion short by a direct question.
'Is it in the Pope's power to release Sister Giovanna from her vows, or
not?'
'Yes. It is--in principle.'
'Then put your principles into practice and make him do it!' cried the
soldier rudely.
Monsignor Saracinesca was unmoved by this attack, which he answered with
calm dignity.
'My dear Captain,' he said, 'in the first place, no one can "make" the
Pope do things. That is not a respectful way of speaking.'
Giovanni was naturally courteous and he felt that he had gone too far.
'I beg your pardon,' he answered. 'I mean no disrespect to the Pope,
though I tell you frankly that I do not believe in much, and not at all
in his authority. What I ask is common justice and your help as a
friend. I ask you to go to him and lay the case before him fairly, as
before a just man, which I heartily believe him to be. You will see that
he will do what you admit is in his power and give Sister Giovanna her
dispensation.'
'If you and she had been married before your disappearance,' argued the
churchman, 'His Holiness would assuredly not refuse. If you had been
solemnly betrothed before your parish priest as well as legally promised
in marriage at the Capitol, he might make an exception, though a civil
betrothal is valid only for six months, under Italian law. But there was
no marriage and no such engagement.'
Giovanni found himself led into argument again.
'We had intended to bind ourselves formally,' he objected. 'I have heard
it said by priests that everything depends on the intention and that
without it the most solemn sacrament is an empty show! Will you doubt
our intention if I give you my word that it was mine, and if Sister
Giovanna assures you that it was hers?'
'Certainly not! The Pope would not doubt you either, I am sure.'
'Then, in the name of all that is just and right, what is the obstacle?
If you admit that the intention is the one important point, and that it
existed, what ground have you left?'
'That is begging the question, Captain. It is true that without the
intention a sacrament is an empty show, but the intention without the
sacrament is of no more value than intention without performance would
be in law. Less, perhaps. There is another point, however, which you
have quite overlooked. If a request for a dispensation were even to be
