"Yes," he said; "as much as I naturally ought to be."
"That is nice of you. There's only one kind of a girl of whom men are
really afraid.... And now I don't exactly know what to do about
you--being, myself, as guilty and horrid as you have been."
She regarded him contemplatively, her hands joined behind her back.
"Exactly what to do about you I don't know," she repeated, leisurely
inspecting him. "Shall I tell you something? I am not afraid to; I am
not a bit cowardly about it either. Shall I?"
"If you dare," he said, smiling and uncertain.
"Very well, then; I rather like you, Mr. Hamil."
"You are a trump!" he blurted out, reddening with surprise.
"Are you astonished that I know you?"
"I don't see how you found out--"
"Found out! What perfectly revolting vanity! Do you suppose that the
moment I left you I rushed home and began to make happy and incoherent
inquiries? Mr. Hamil, you disappoint me every time you speak--and also
every time you don't."
"I seem to be doomed."
"You are. You can't help it. Tell me--as inoffensively as possible--are
you here to begin your work?"
"M-my work?"
"Yes, on the Cardross estate--"
"You have heard of that!" he exclaimed, surprised.
"Y-es--" negligently. "Petty gossip circulates here. A cracker at West
Palm Beach built a new chicken coop, and we all heard of it. Tell me, do
you still desire to see me again?"
"I do--to pay a revengeful debt or two."
"Oh! I have offended you? Pay me now, if you please, and let us end this
indiscretion."
"You will let me see you again, won't you?"
"Why? Mr. Hamil."
"Because I--I must!"
"Oh! You are becoming emphatic. So I am going.... And I've half a mind
to take you back and present you to my family.... Only it wouldn't do
for me; any other girl perhaps might dare--under the circumstances;
but I can't--and that's all I'll tell you."
Hamil, standing straight and tall, straw hat tucked under one arm, bent
toward her with the formality and engaging deference natural to him.
"You have been very merciful to me; only a girl of your caste could
afford to. Will you forgive my speaking to you as I did?--when I said
'Calypso!' I have no excuse; I don't know why I did. I'm even sorrier
for myself than for you."
"I was hurt.... Then I supposed that you did not mean it.
Besides"--she looked up with her rare smile--"I knew you, Mr. Hamil, in
the boat this morning. I haven't really been very dreadful."
"You knew even then?"
"Yes, I did. The Palm Beach News published your picture a week ago; and
I read all about the very remarkable landscape architect who was coming
to turn the Cardross jungle into a most wonderful Paradise."
"You knew me all that time?"
"All of it, Mr. Hamil."
"From the moment you climbed into my boat?"
"Practically. Of course I did not look at you very closely at first....
Does that annoy you? It seems to ... or something does, for even in the
dusk I can see your ever-ready blush--"
"I don't know why you pretend to think me such a fool," he protested,
laughing; "you seemed to take that for granted from the very first."
"Why not? You persistently talked to me when you didn't know me--you're
doing it now for that matter!--and you began by telling me that I was
fool-hardy, not really courageous in the decent sense of the word, and
that I was a self-conscious stick and a horribly inhuman and unnatural
object generally--and all because I wouldn't flirt with you--"
His quick laughter interrupted her. She ventured to laugh a little
too--a very little; and that was the charm of her to him--the
clear-eyed, delicate gravity not lightly transformed. But when her
laughter came, it came as such a surprisingly lovely revelation that it
left him charmed and silent.
"I wonder," she said, "if you can be amusing--except when you don't mean
to be."
"If you'll give me a chance to try--"
"Perhaps. I was hardly fair to you in that boat."
"If you knew me in the boat this morning, why did you not say so?"
"Could I admit that I knew you without first pretending I didn't? Hasn't
every woman a Heaven-given right to travel in a circle as the shortest
distance between two points?"
"Certainly; only--"
She shook her head slowly. "There's no use in my telling you who I am,
now, considering that I can't very well escape exposure in the near
future. That might verge on effrontery--and it's horrid enough to be
here with you--in spite of several thousand people tramping about within
elbow touch.... Which reminds me that my own party is probably hunting
for me.... Such a crowd, you know, and so easy to become separated. What
do you suppose they'd think if they suspected the truth?... And the
worst of it is that I cannot afford to do a thing of this sort.... You
don't understand; but you may some day--partly. And then perhaps you'll
think this matter all over and come to a totally different conclusion
concerning my overlooking your recent rudeness and--and my consenting to
speak to you."
"You don't believe for one moment that I could mistake it--"
"It depends upon what sort of a man you really are.... I don't know. I
give you the benefit of all doubts."
She stood silent, looking him candidly in the eyes, then with a gesture
and the slightest shrug, she turned away toward the white road outside.
He was at her elbow in two steps.
"Oh, yes--the irony of formality."
She nodded. "Good night, then, Mr. Hamil. If circumstances permitted it
would have been delightful--this putting off the cloak of convention and
donning motley for a little unconventional misbehaviour with you....
But as it is, it worries me--slightly--as much as the episode and your
opinion are worth."
"I am wondering," he said, "why this little tincture of bitterness
flavours what you say to me?"
"Because I've misbehaved; and so have you. Anyway, now that it's done,
there's scarcely anything I could do to make the situation more flagrant
or less flippant--"
"You don't really think--"
"Certainly. After all is said and done, we don't know each other; here
we are, shamelessly sauntering side by side under the jasmine,
Paul-and-Virginia-like, exchanging subtleties blindfolded. You are you;
I am I; formally, millions of miles apart--temporarily and informally
close together, paralleling each other's course through life for the
span of half an hour--here under the Southern stars.... O Ulysses, truly
that island was inhabited by one, Calypso; but your thrall is to be
briefer than your prototype's. See, now; here is the road; and I release
you to that not impossible she--"
"There is none--"
"There will be. You are very young. Good-bye."
"The confusing part of it to me," he said, smiling, "is to see you
so--so physically youthful with even a hint of almost childish
immaturity!--and then to hear you as you are--witty, experienced,
nicely cynical, maturely sure of yourself and--"
"You think me experienced?"
"Yes."
"Sure of myself?"
"Of course; with your cool, amused poise, your absolute
self-possession--and the half-disdainful sword-play of your wit--at my
expense--"
She halted beside the sea-wall, adorably mocking in her exaggerated
gravity.
"At your expense?" she repeated. "Why not? You have cost me something."
"You said--"
"I know what I said: I said that we might become friends. But even so,
you have already cost me something. Tell me"--he began to listen for
this little trick of speech--"how many men do you know who would not
misunderstand what I have done this evening? And--do you understand
it, Mr. Hamil?"
"I think--"
"If you do you are cleverer than I," she said almost listlessly, moving
on again under the royal palms.
"Do you mean that--"
"Yes; that I myself don't entirely understand it. Here, under this
Southern sun, we of the North are in danger of acquiring a sort of
insouciant directness almost primitive. There comes, after a while, a
certain mental as well as physical luxury in relaxation of rule and
precept, permitting us a simplicity which sometimes, I think, becomes
something less harmless. There is luxury in letting go of that live
wire which keeps us all keyed to one conventional monotone in the North.
I let go--for a moment--to-night. You let go when you said 'Calypso.'
You couldn't have said it in New York; I couldn't have heard you,
there.... Alas, Ulysses, I should not have heard you anywhere. But I
did; and I answered.... Say good night to me, now; won't you? We have
not been very wicked, I think."
She offered her hand; smooth and cool it lay for a second in his.
"I can't let you return alone," he ventured.
"If you please, how am I to explain you to--the others?"
And as he said nothing:
"If I were--different--I'd simply tell them the truth. I could afford
to. Besides we'll all know you before very long. Then we'll see--oh,
yes, both of us--whether we have been foolishly wise to become
companions in our indiscretion, or--otherwise.... And don't worry about
my home-arrival. That's my lawn--there where that enormous rubber-banyan
tree straddles across the stars.... Is it not quaint--the tangle of
shrubbery all over jasmine?--and those are royal poincianas, if you
please--and there's a great garden beyond and most delectable orange
groves where you and I and the family and Alonzo will wander and eat
pine-oranges and king-oranges and mandarins and--oh, well! Are you going
to call on Mr. Cardross to-morrow?"
"Yes," he said, "I'll have to see Mr. Cardross at once. And after that,
what am I to do to meet you?"
"I will consider the matter," she said; and bending slightly toward him:
"Am I to be disappointed in you? I don't know, and you can't tell me."
Then, impulsively: "Be generous to me. You are right; I am not very old,
yet. Be nice to me in your thoughts. I have never before done such a
thing as this: I never could again. It is not very dreadful--is it? Will
you think nicely of me?"
He said gaily: "Now you speak as you look, not like a world-worn woman
of thirty wearing the soft, fresh mask of nineteen."
"You have not answered me," she said quietly.
"Answered you, Calypso?"
"Yes; I ask you to be very gentle and fastidious with me in your
thoughts; not even to call me Calypso--in your thoughts."
"What you ask I had given you the first moment we met."
"Then you may call me Calypso--in your thoughts."
"Calypso," he pleaded, "won't you tell me where to find you?"
"Yes; in the house of--Mr. Cardross. This is his house."
She turned and stepped onto the lawn. A mass of scarlet hibiscus hid
her, then she reappeared, a pale shape in the dusk of the
oleander-bordered path.
He listened; the perfume of the oleanders enveloped him; high under the
stars the fronds of a royal palm hung motionless. Then, through the
stillness, very far away, he heard the southern ocean murmuring in its
slumber under a million stars.
CHAPTER IV
RECONNAISSANCE
Hamil awoke early: long before breakfast he was shaved, dressed, and
hungry; but in the hotel late rising appeared to be fashionable, and
through the bewildering maze of halls and corridors nobody was yet astir
except a few children and their maids.
So he sauntered about the acres of floor space from rotunda to music
room, from desk to sun parlour, through the endless carpeted tunnel
leading to the station, and back again, taking his bearings in this
wilderness of runways so profusely embowered with palms and furniture.
In one wide corridor, lined like a street with shops, clerks were
rearranging show windows; and Hamil strolled from the jewellers to the
brilliant but dubious display of an Armenian rug dealer; from a New York
milliner's exhibition, where one or two blond, sleepy-eyed young women
moved languidly about, to an exasperating show of shells, curiosities,
and local photographs which quenched further curiosity.
However, beyond the shops, at the distant end of an Axminster vista
flanked by cabbage-palms and masterpieces from Grand Rapids, he saw
sunshine and the green tops of trees; and he made toward the oasis,
coming out along a white colonnade overlooking the hotel gardens.
It was early enough for any ambitious bird to sing, but there were few
song-birds in the gardens--a palm warbler or two, and a pair of subdued
mocking-birds not inclined to be tuneful. Everywhere, however, purple
and bronze grackle appeared, flying or walking busily over the lawns,
sunlight striking the rainbow hackle on their necks, and their
pale-yellow or bright-orange eyes staring boldly at the gardeners who
dawdled about the flowery labyrinths with watering-can and jointed hose.
And from every shrub and tree came the mildly unpleasant calling of the
grackle, and the blackbirds along the lagoon answered with their own
unmusical "Co-ca-chee!--Co-ca-chee-e!"
Somehow, to Hamil, the sunshine seemed to reveal more petty defects in
this semi-tropical landscape than he could have divined the night before
under the unblemished magic of the stars. For the grass was not real
grass, but only that sparse, bunchy, sun-crisped substitute from
Bermuda; here and there wind-battered palmetto fronds hung burnt and
bronzed; and the vast hotel, which through the darkness he had seen
piled up above the trees in cliff-like beauty against the stars, was
actually remarkable only for its size and lack of architectural
interest.
He began to wonder whether the inhabitants of its thousand rooms, aware
of the pitiless clarity of this semi-tropical morning sunlight, shunned
it lest it reveal unsuspected defects in those pretty lantern-lit faces
of which he had had glimpses in the gardens' enchanted dusk the night
before. However, the sunshine seemed to render the little children only
the lovelier, and he sat on the railing, his back against a pillar,
watching them racing about with their nurses, until the breakfast hour
at last came around and found him at table, no longer hungry.
A stream of old ladies and gentlemen continued toddling into the
breakfast rooms where an acre or two of tables, like a profuse crop of
mushrooms, disturbed the monotony of the hotel interior with a monotony
still more pronounced. However, there was hazy sunshine in the place and
a glimpse of blessed green outside, and the leisurely negroes brought
him fruit which was almost as good as the New York winter markets
afforded, and his breakfast amused him mildly.
The people, too, amused him--so many dozens of old ladies and gentlemen,
all so remarkably alike in a common absence of distinguishing traits--a
sort of homogeneous, expressionless similarity which was rather amazing
as they doubtless had gathered there from all sections of the Republic.
But the children were delightful, and all over the vast room he could
distinguish their fresh little faces like tufts of flowers set in a
waste of dusty stubble, and amid the culinary clatter their clear, gay
little voices broke through cheerfully at moments, grateful as the
morning chatter of sparrows in early spring.
When Hamil left his table he halted to ask an imposing head-waiter
whether Miss Palliser might be expected to breakfast, and was informed
that she breakfasted and lunched in her rooms and dined always in the
café.
So he stopped at the desk and sent up his card.
A number of young people evidently equipped for the golf links now
pervaded hall and corridor; others, elaborately veiled for motoring,
stopped at the desk for letters on their way into the outer sunshine.
A row of rather silent but important-looking gentlemen, morning cigars
afire, gradually formed ranks in arm-chairs under the colonnade; people
passing and repassing began to greet each other with more vivacity;
veranda and foyer became almost animated as the crowd increased. And now
a demure bride or two emerged in all the radiance of perfect love and
raiment, squired by him, braving the searching sunshine with
confidence in her beauty, her plumage, and a kindly planet; and, in
pitiful contrast, here and there some waxen-faced invalid, wheeled by a
trained nurse, in cap and cuffs, through sunless halls into the clear
sea air, to lie motionless, with leaden lids scarcely parted, in the
glory of a perfect day.
A gentleman, rotund of abdomen, wearing a stubby red moustache, screwed
a cigar firmly into the off corner of his mouth and, after looking
aggressively at Hamil for fully half a minute, said:
"Southern Pacific sold off at the close."
"Indeed," said Hamil.
"It's like picking daisies," said the gentleman impressively. And, after
a pause, during which he continued to survey the younger man: "What
name?" he inquired, as though Hamil had been persistently attempting to
inform him.
Hamil told him good-naturedly.
"Pleased to meet you, Mr. Hamil. My name is Rawley--probably the name is
familiar to you?--Ambrose Rawley"--he coughed--"by profession a
botanist."
Hamil smiled, recognising in the name the most outrageously expensive of
New York florists who had made a fortune in cut flowers.
"Have a drink?" persisted Mr. Rawley. "No? Too early for you? Well,
let's get a couple of niggers and wheel-chairs."
But Hamil declined with the easy good-humour which characterised him;
and a few moments later, learning at the office that his aunt would
receive him, followed his negro guide through endless carpeted
labyrinths and was ushered by a maid into a sunny reception-room.
"Garry!--you dear boy!" exclaimed his amazingly youthful aunt, holding
out both arms to him from the door of her bedroom, partly ajar.
"No--don't come near me; I'm not even in complete negligée yet, but I
will be in one minute when Titine fastens me up and makes the most of my
scanty locks--" She looked out at him with a laugh and gave her head a
little jerk forward, and her splendid chestnut hair came tumbling down
in the sunshine.
"You're prettier than ever," said her nephew; "they'll take us for bride
and groom as usual. I say, Constance, I suppose they've followed you
down here."
"Who, Garry,"--very innocently.
"The faithful three, Colonel Vetchen, Cuyp, and old--I mean the
gracefully mature Courtlandt Classon. Are they here?"
"I believe so, dear," admitted his aunt demurely. "And, Garry, so is
Virginia Suydam."
"Really," he said, suddenly subdued as his aunt who was forty and looked
twenty-five came forward in her pretty chamber-gown, and placed two firm
white arms around him and kissed him squarely and with vigour.
"You dear!" she said; "you certainly are the best-looking boy in all
Florida. When did you come? Is Jim Wayward's yacht here still? And why
didn't he come to see me?"
"The Ariani sailed for Miami last night after I landed. I left my
card, but the office people rang and rang and could get no answer--"
"I was in bed! How stupid of me! I retired early because Virginia and I
had been dissipating shamefully all the week and my aged bones required
a rest.... And now tell me all about this new commission of yours. I
have met the Cardross family; everybody at Palm Beach is talking about
the magnificent park Mr. Cardross is planning; and your picture has
appeared in the local paper, and I've told everybody you're quite
wonderful, and everybody now is informing everybody else that you're
quite wonderful!"
His very gay aunt lay back in her great soft chair, pushing with both
fair hands the masses of chestnut hair from her forehead, and smiling at
him out of her golden brown eyes--the jolliest, frankest of eyes--the
sort even women trust instinctively at first glimpse.
So he sat there and told her all about his commission and how this man,
Neville Cardross, whom he had never even seen, had written to him and
asked him to make the most splendid park in America around the Cardross
villa, and had invited him to be his guest during his stay in Florida.
"They evidently are nice people from the way Mr. Cardross writes," he
said. "You say you know them, Constance?"
"I've met them several times--the way you meet people here. They have a
villa--rather imposing in an exotic fashion. Why, yes, Garry, they are
nice; dreadfully wealthy, tremendously popular. Mrs. Carrick, the
married daughter, is very agreeable; her mother is amiable and
dreadfully stout. Then there's a boy of your age--Gray Cardross--a
well-mannered youth who drives motors, and whom Mr. Classon calls a
'speed-mad cub.' Then there is Cecile Cardross--a débutante of last
winter, and then--" Miss Palliser hesitated, crossed one knee over the
other, and sat gently swinging her slippered foot and looking at her
nephew.
"Does that conclude the list of the Cardross family?" he asked.
"N-no. There remains the beauty of the family, Shiela." She continued to
survey him with smiling intentness, and went on slowly:
"Shiela Cardross; the girl here. People are quite mad about her, I
assure you. My dear, every man at Palm Beach tags after her; rows of
callow youths sit and gaze at her very footprints in the sand when she
crosses the beach; she turns masculine heads to the verge of permanent
dislocation. No guilty man escapes; even Courtlandt Classon is
meditating treachery to me, and Mr. Cuyp has long been wavering and
Gussie Vetchen too! the wretch!... We poor women try hard to like
her--but, Garry, is it human to love such a girl?"
"It's divine, Constance, so you'll like her."
"Oh, yes; thank you. Well, I do; I don't know her well, but I'm inclined
to like her--in a way.... There's something else, though." She
considered her handsome nephew steadily. "You are to be a guest there
while this work of yours is in hand?"
"Yes--I believe so."
"Then, dear, without the slightest unworthy impulse or the faintest
trace of malice, I wish to put you on your guard. It's horrid, but I
must."
"On my guard!" he repeated.
"Yes--forearm you, Garry. Shiela Cardross is a rather bewildering
beauty. She is French convent-bred, clever and cultivated and extremely
talented. Besides that she has every fashionable grace and
accomplishment at the ends of her pretty fingers--and she has a way with
her--a way of looking at you--which is pure murder to the average man.
And beside that she is very simple and sweet to everybody. As an
assassin of hearts she's equipped to slay yours, Garry."
"Well?" he inquired, laughing. And added: "Let her slay. Why not?"
"This, dear. And you who know me will acquit me of any ignoble motive if
I say that she is not your social equal, Garry."
"What! I thought you said--"
"Yes--about the others. But it is not the same with Shiela Cardross.
I--it seems cruel to say it--but it is for your sake--to effectually
forestall any possible accident--that I am going to tell you that this
very lovely girl, Shiela, is an adopted child, not a daughter. That
exceedingly horrid old gossip, Mrs. Van Dieman, told me that the girl
was a foundling taken by Mr. and Mrs. Cardross from the Staten Island
asylum. And I'm afraid Mrs. Van Dieman knows what she's talking about
because she founded and still supports the asylum."
Hamil looked gravely across at his aunt. "The poor little girl," he said
slowly. "Lord, but that's tough! and tougher still to have Mrs. Van
Dieman taking the trouble to spread the news. Can't you shut her up?"
"It is tough, Garret. I suppose they all are dreadfully sensitive
about it. I begged Mrs. Van Dieman to keep her own counsel. But she
won't. And you know, dear, that it would make no difference to me in my
relations with the girl--except that"--she hesitated, smiling--"she is
not good enough for you, Garry, and so, if you catch the prevailing
contagion, and fall a victim, you have been inoculated now and will
have the malady lightly."
"My frivolous and fascinating aunt," he said, "have you ever known me to
catch any prevailing--"
"O Garret! You know you have!--dozens of times--"
"I've been civilly attentive to several girls--"
"I wish to goodness you'd marry Virginia Suydam; but you won't."
"Virginia!" he repeated, astonished.
"Yes, I do; I wish you were safely and suitably married. I'm worried,
Garry; you are becoming too good-looking not to get into some horrid
complication--as poor Jim Wayward did; and now he's done for, finished!
Oh, I wish I didn't feel so responsible for you. And I wish you
weren't going to the Cardrosses' to live for months!"
He leaned forward, laughing, and took his aunt's slim hands between his
own sunburned fists. "You cunning little thing," he said, "if you talk
that way I'll marry you off to one of the faithful three; you and
Virginia too. Lord, do you think I'm down here to cut capers when I've
enough hard work ahead to drive a dozen men crazy for a year? As for
your beautiful Miss Cardross--why I saw a girl in a boat--not long
ago--who really was a beauty. I mean to find her, some day; and that
is something for you to worry about!"
"Garry! Tell me!"
But he rose, still laughing, and saluted Miss Palliser's hands.
"If you and Virginia have nothing better on I'll dine with you at eight.
Yes? No?"
"Of course. Where are you going now?"
"To report to Mr. Cardross--and brave beauty in its bower," he added
mischievously. "I'll doubtless be bowled over first shot and come around
for a dinner and a blessing at eight this evening."
"Don't joke about it," she said as they rose together and stood for a
moment at the window looking down into the flowering gardens.
"Is it not a jolly scene?" she added--"the fountain against the green,
and the flowers and the sunshine everywhere, and all those light summer
gowns outdoors in January, and--" She checked herself and laid her hand
on his arm; "Garry, do you see that girl in the wheel-chair!--the one
just turning into the gardens!"
He had already seen her. Suddenly his heart stood still in dread of what
his aunt was about to say. He knew already somehow that she was going to
say it, yet when she spoke the tiny shock came just the same.
"That," said his aunt, "is Shiela Cardross. Is she not too lovely for
words?"
"Yes," he said, "she is very beautiful."
For a while they stood together there at the window, then he said
good-bye in a rather subdued manner which made his aunt laugh that
jolly, clear laugh which never appealed to him in vain.
"You're not mortally stricken already at your first view of her, are
you?" she asked.
"Not mortally," he said.
"Then fall a victim and recover quickly. And don't let me sit here too
long without seeing you; will you?"
She went to the door with him, one arm linked in his, brown eyes bright
with her pride and confidence in him--in this tall, wholesome,
clean-built boy, already on the verge of distinction in his rather
unusual profession. And she saw in him all the strength and engaging
good looks of his dead father, and all the clear and lovable sincerity
of his mother--her only sister--now also dead.
"You will come to see me sometimes--won't you, Garry?" she repeated
wistfully.
"Of course I will. Give my love to Virginia and my amused regards to the
faithful three."
And so they parted, he to saunter down into the cool gardens on his way
to call on Mr. Cardross; she to pace the floor, excited by his arrival,
her heart beating with happiness, pride, solicitude for the young fellow
who was like brother and son to her--this handsome, affectionate,
generous boy who had steadily from the very first declined to accept one
penny of her comfortable little fortune lest she be deprived of the
least luxury or convenience, and who had doggedly educated and prepared
himself, and contrived to live within the scanty means he had inherited.
And now at last the boy saw success ahead, and Miss Palliser was happy,
dreaming brilliant dreams for him, conjuring vague splendours for the
future--success unbounded, honours, the esteem of all good men; this,
for her boy. And--if it must be--love, in its season--with the
inevitable separation and a slow dissolution of an intimacy which had
held for her all she desired in life--his companionship, his happiness,
his fortune; this also she dreamed for his sake. Yes--knowing she could
not always keep him, and that it must come inexorably, she dreamed of
love for him--and marriage.
And, as she stood now by the sunny window, idly intent on her vision,
without warning the face of Shiela Cardross glimmered through the dream,
growing clearer, distinct in every curve and tint of its exquisite
perfection; and she stared at the mental vision, evoking it with all
the imagination of her inner consciousness, unquiet yet curious,
striving to look into the phantom's eyes--clear, direct eyes which she
remembered; and a thrill of foreboding touched her, lest the boy she
loved might find in the sweetness of these clear eyes a peril not
lightly overcome.
"She is so unusually beautiful," said Miss Palliser aloud, unconscious
that she had spoken. And she added, wondering, "God knows what blood is
in her veins to form a body so divine."
CHAPTER V
A FLANK MOVEMENT
Young Hamil, moving thoughtfully along through the gardens, caught a
glimpse of a group under the palms which halted him for an instant, then
brought him forward, hat off, hand cordially outstretched.
"Awf'lly glad to see you, Virginia; this is very jolly; hello, Cuyp! How
are you, Colonel Vetchen--oh! how do you do, Mr. Classon!" as the latter
came trotting down the path, twirling a limber walking-stick.
"How-dee-do! How-dee-do!" piped Courtlandt Classon, with a rickety
abandon almost paternal; and, replying literally, Hamil admitted his
excellent physical condition.
Virginia Suydam, reclining in her basket chair, very picturesque in a
broad hat, smiled at him out of her peculiar bluish-green eyes, while
Courtlandt Classon fussed and fussed and patted his shoulder; an old
beau who had toddled about Manhattan in the days when the town was gay
below Bleecker Street, when brownstone was for the rich alone, when the
family horses wore their tails long and a proud Ethiope held the reins,
when Saratoga was the goal of fashion, and old General Jan
Van-der-Duynck pronounced his own name "Wonnerdink," with profane
accompaniment.
They were all most affable--Van Tassel Cuyp with the automatic nervous
snicker that deepened the furrows from nostril to mouth, a tall
stoop-shouldered man of scant forty with the high colour, long, nervous
nose, and dull eye of Dutch descent; and Colonel Augustus Magnelius
Pietrus Vetchen, scion of an illustrious line whose ancestors had been
colonial governors and judges before the British flag floated from the
New Amsterdam fort. His daughter was the celebrated beauty, Mrs. Tom
O'Hara. She had married O'Hara and so many incredible millions that
people insisted that was why Colonel Vetchen's eyebrows expressed the
acute slant of perpetual astonishment.
So they were all cordial, for was he not related to the late General
Garret Suydam and, therefore, distantly to them all? And these men who
took themselves and their lineage so seriously, took Hamil seriously;
and he often attempted to appreciate it seriously, but his sense of
humour was too strong. They were all good people, kindly and harmless
snobs; and when he had made his adieux under the shadow of the white
portico, he lingered a moment to observe the obsolete gallantry with
which Mr. Classon and Colonel Vetchen wafted Virginia up the steps.
Cuyp lingered to venture a heavy pleasantry or two which distorted his
long nose into a series of white-ridged wrinkles, then he ambled away
and disappeared within the abode of that divinity who shapes our ends,
the manicure; and Hamil turned once more toward the gardens.
The hour was still early; of course too unconventional to leave cards on
the Cardross family, even too early for a business visit; but he thought
he would stroll past the villa, the white walls of which he had dimly
seen the evening before. Besides his Calypso was there. Alas! for
Calypso. Yet his heart tuned up a trifle as he thought of seeing her so
soon again.
And so, a somewhat pensive but wholly attractive and self-confident
young opportunist in white flannels, he sauntered through the hotel
gardens and out along the dazzling shell-road.
No need for him to make inquiries of passing negroes; no need to ask
where the House of Cardross might be found; for although he had seen it
only by starlight, and the white sunshine now transformed everything
under its unfamiliar glare, he remembered his way, étape by étape, from
the foliated iron grille of Whitehall to the ancient cannon bedded in
rusting trunnions; and from that mass of Spanish bronze, southward under
the tall palms, past hedges of vermilion hibiscus and perfumed oleander,
past villa after villa embowered in purple, white, and crimson flowering
vines, and far away inland along the snowy road until, at the turn, a
gigantic banyan tree sprawled across the sky and the lilac-odour of
china-berry in bloom stole subtly through the aromatic confusion, pure,
sweet, refreshing in all its exquisite integrity.
"Calypso's own fragrance," he thought to himself--remembering the
intimate perfume of her hair and gown as she passed so near to him in
the lantern light when he had spoken without discretion.
And suddenly the reminiscent humour faded from his eyes and mouth as he
remembered what his aunt had said of this young girl; and, halting in
his tracks, he recalled what she herself had said; that the harmless
liberties another girl might venture to take with informality, armoured
in an assurance above common convention, she could not venture. And now
he knew why.... She had expected him to learn that she was an adopted
daughter; in the light of his new knowledge he understood that. No doubt
it was generally known. But the child had not expected him to know more
than that; and, her own knowledge of the hopeless truth, plainly enough,
was the key to that note of bitterness which he had detected at times,
and even spoken of--that curious maturity forced by unhappy
self-knowledge, that apathetic indifference stirred at moments to a
quick sensitive alertness almost resembling self-defence. She was aware
of her own story; that was certain. And the acid of that knowledge was
etching the designs of character upon a physical adolescence unprepared
for such biting reaction.
He was sorry he knew it, feeling ashamed of his own guiltless invasion
of the girl's privacy.
The only reparation possible was to forget it. Like an honourable
card-player who inadvertently sees his opponent's cards, he must play
his hand exactly as he would have in the beginning. And that, he
believed, would be perfectly simple.
Reassured he looked across the lawns toward the Cardross villa, a big
house of coquina cement, very beautiful in its pseudo-Spanish
architecture, red-tiled roofs, cool patias, arcades, and courts; the
formality of terrace, wall, and fountain charmingly disguised under a
riot of bloom and foliage.
The house stood farther away than he had imagined, for here the public
road ended abruptly in a winding hammock-trail, and to the east the
private drive of marl ran between high gates of wrought iron swung wide
between carved coquina pillars.
And the house itself was very much larger than he had imagined; the
starlight had illuminated only a small portion of its white façade,
tricking him; for this was almost a palace--one of those fine
vigorously designed mansions, so imposing in simplicity, nicknamed by
smug humility--a "cottage," or "villa."
"By jingo, it's noble!" he exclaimed, the exotic dignity of the house
dawning on him by degrees as he moved forward and the southern ocean
sprang into view, turquoise and amethyst inlaid streak on streak to the
still horizon.
"What a chance!" he repeated under his breath; "what a chance for the
noblest park ever softened into formality! And the untouched forests
beyond!--and the lagoons!--and the dunes to the east--and the sea! Lord,
Lord," he whispered with unconscious reverence, "what an Eden!"
One of the white-haired, black-skinned children of men--though the point
is locally disputed--looked up from the grass where he squatted
gathering ripe fruit under a sapodilla tree; and to an inquiry:
"Yaas-suh, yaas-suh; Mistuh Cahdhoss in de pomelo g'ove, suh, feedin'
mud-cat to de wile-puss."
"Doing what?"
"Feedin' mud-fish to de wile-cat, de wile lynx-cat, suh." The aged negro
rose, hat doffed, juicy traces of forbidden sapodillas on his face which
he naïvely removed with the back of the blackest and most grotesquely
wrinkled hand Hamil had ever seen.
"Yaas-suh; 'scusin' de 'gator, wile-cat love de mud-fish mostest; yaas,
suh. Ole torm-cat he fish de crick lak he was no 'count Seminole
trash--"
"One moment, uncle," interrupted Hamil, smiling; "is that the pomelo
grove? And is that gentleman yonder Mr. Cardross?"
"Yaas-suh."
He stood silent a moment thoughtfully watching the distant figure
through the vista of green leaves, white blossoms, and great clusters of
fruit hanging like globes of palest gold in the sun.
"I think," he said absently, "that I'll step over and speak to Mr.
Cardross.... Thank you, uncle.... What kind of fruit is that you're
gathering?"
"Sappydilla, suh."
Hamil laughed; he had heard that a darky would barter 'possum, ham-bone,
and soul immortal for a ripe sapodilla; he had also once, much farther
northward, seen the distressing spectacle of Savannah negroes loading a
freight car with watermelons; and it struck him now that it was equally
rash to commission this aged uncle on any such business as the gathering
of sapodillas for family consumption.
The rolling, moist, and guileless eye of the old man whose slightly
pained expression made it plain that he divined exactly what Hamil had
been thinking, set the young man laughing outright.
"Don't worry, uncle," he said; "they're not my sapodillas"; and he
walked toward the pomelo grove, the old man, a picture of outraged
innocence, looking after him, thoughtlessly biting into an enormous and
juicy specimen of the forbidden fruit as he looked.
There was a high fence of woven wire around the grove; through scented
vistas, spotted with sunshine, fruit and blossoms hung together amid
tender foliage of glossy green; palms and palmettos stood with broad
drooping fronds here and there among the citrus trees, and the brown
woody litter which covered the ground was all starred with fallen
flowers.
The gate was open, and as Hamil stepped in he met a well-built, active
man in white flannels coming out; and both halted abruptly.
"I am looking for Mr. Cardross," said the younger man.
"I am Mr. Cardross."
Hamil nodded. "I mean that I am looking for Mr. Cardross, senior--"
"I am Mr. Cardross, senior."
Hamil gazed at this active gentleman who could scarcely be the father of
married children; and yet, as he looked, the crisp, thick hair, the
clear sun-bronzed skin which had misled him might after all belong to
that type of young-old men less common in America than in England. And
Hamil also realised that his hair was silvered, not blond, and that
neither the hands nor the eyes of this man were the hands and eyes of
youth.
"I am Garret Hamil," he said.
"I recognise you perfectly. I supposed you older--until my daughter
showed me your picture in the News two weeks ago!"
"I supposed you older--until this minute."
"I am!"
Looking squarely into each other's faces they laughed and shook hands.
"When did you come, Mr. Hamil?"
"Last night from Nassau."
"Where are you stopping?"
Hamil told him.
"Your rooms are ready here. It's very good of you to come to see me at
once--"
"It's very good of you to want me--"
"Want you, man alive! Of course I want you! I'm all on edge over this
landscape scheme; I've done nothing since we arrived from the North but
ride over and over the place--and I've not half covered it yet. That's
the way we'll begin work, isn't it? Knock about together and get a
general idea of the country; isn't that the best way?"
"Yes, certainly--"
"I thought so. The way to learn a country is to ride over it, fish over
it, shoot over it, sail around it, camp in it--that's my notion of
thoroughly understanding a region. If you're going to improve it you've
got to care something about it--begin to like it--find pleasure in it,
understand it. Isn't that true, Mr. Hamil?"
"Yes--in a measure--"
"Of course it's true," repeated Cardross with his quick engaging laugh;
"if a man doesn't care for a thing he's not fitted to alter or modify
it. I've often thought that those old French landscape men must have
dearly loved the country they made so beautiful--loved it
intelligently--for they left so much wild beauty edging the formality of
their creations. Do you happen to remember the Chasse at Versailles? And
that's what I want here! You don't mind my instructing you in your own
profession, do you?"
They both laughed again, apparently qualified to understand one another.
Cardross said: "I'm glad you're young; I'm glad you've come. This is
going to be the pleasantest winter of my life. There isn't anything I'd
rather do than just this kind of thing--if you'll let me tag after you
and talk about it. You don't mind, do you?"
"No, I don't," said Hamil sincerely.
"We'll probably have rows," suggested Cardross; "I may want vistas and
terraces and fountains where they ought not to be."
"Oh, no, you won't," replied Hamil, laughing; "you'll understand things
when I give reasons."
"That's what I want--reasons. If anybody would only give me
reasons!--but nobody does. Listen; will you come up to the house with me
and meet my family? And then you'll lunch with them--I've a business
luncheon at the club--unfortunately--but I'll come back. Meanwhile
there'll be somebody to show you about, or you can run out to the Inlet
in one of the motor-boats if you like, or do anything you like that may
amuse you; the main thing is for you to be amused, to find this place
agreeable, to like this kind of country, to like us. Then you can do
good work, Mr. Hamil."
A grinning negro shuffled up and closed the gate as they left the grove
together and started across the lawn. Cardross, cordial in his quick,
vigorous manner, strolled with his hands in his coat pockets, planting
each white-shod foot firmly as he walked, frequently turning head and
shoulders squarely toward his companion when speaking.
He must have been over fifty; he did not appear forty; still, on closer
and more detailed inspection Hamil understood how much his alert,
well-made figure had to do with the first impression of youth. Yet his
expression had nothing in it of that shadow which falls with
years--nothing to show to the world that he had once taken the world by
the throat and wrung a fortune out of it--nothing of the hard gravity or
the underlying sadness of almost ruthless success, and the
responsibility for it.
Yet, from the first, Hamil had been aware of all that was behind this
unstudied frankness, this friendly vigour. There was a man, there--every
inch a man, but exactly of what sort the younger man had not yet
decided.
       *       *       *       *       *
A faded and very stout lady, gowned with elaborate simplicity, yet
somehow suggesting well-bred untidiness, rolled toward them, propelled
in a wheeled-chair by a black servant.
"Dear," said Mr. Cardross, "this is Mr. Hamil." And Mrs. Cardross
offered him her chubby hand and said a little more than he expected.
Then, to her husband, languidly:
"They're playing tennis, Neville. If Mr. Hamil would care to play there
are tennis-shoes belonging to Gray and Acton."
"Thank you, Mrs. Cardross," said Hamil, "but, as a matter of fact, I am
not yet acclimated."
"You feel a little sleepy?" drawled Mrs. Cardross, maternally
solicitous; "everybody does for the first few days." And to her husband:
"Jessie and Cecile are playing; Shiela must be somewhere about--You will
lunch with us, Mr. Hamil? There's to be a tennis luncheon under the
oaks--we'd really like to have you if you can stay."
Hamil accepted as simply as the invitation was given; Mrs. Cardross
exchanged a few words with her husband in that perfectly natural drawl
which at first might have been mistaken for languid affectation; then
she smiled at Hamil and turned around in her basket chair, parasol
tilted, and the black boy began slowly pedalling her away across the
lawn.
"We'll step over to the tennis-courts," said Cardross, replacing the
straw hat which he had removed to salute his wife; "they're having a
sort of scratch-tournament I believe--my daughters and some other young
people. I think you'll find the courts rather pretty."
The grounds were certainly quaint; spaces for four white marl courts had
been cleared, hewn out of the solid jungle which walled them in with a
noble living growth of live oak, cedar, magnolia, and palmetto. And on
these courts a very gay company of young people in white were playing or
applauding the players while the snowy balls flew across the nets and
the resonant blows of the bats rang out.
And first Mr. Cardross presented Hamil to his handsome married daughter,
Mrs. Acton Carrick, a jolly, freckled, young matron who showed her teeth
when she smiled and shook hands like her father; and then he was made
known to the youngest daughter, Cecile Cardross, small, plump, and
sun-tanned, with ruddy hair and mischief in every feature.
There was, also, a willowy Miss Staines and a blond Miss Anan, and a
very young Mr. Anan--a brother--and a grave and gaunt Mr. Gatewood and a
stout Mr. Ellison, and a number of others less easy to remember.
"This wholesale introduction business is always perplexing," observed
Cardross; "but they'll all remember you, and after a time you'll begin
to distinguish them from the shrubbery. No"--as Mrs. Carrick asked Hamil
if he cared to play--"he would rather look on this time, Jessie. Go
ahead; we are not interrupting you; where is Shiela--"
And Hamil, chancing to turn, saw her, tennis-bat tucked under one bare
arm, emerging from the jungle path; and at the same instant she caught
sight of him. Both little chalked shoes stood stockstill--for a second
only--then she came forward, leisurely, continuing to eat the ripe
guava with which she had been occupied.
Cardross, advancing, said: "This is Mr. Hamil, dearest; and," to the
young man: "My daughter Shiela."
She nodded politely.
"Now I've got to go, Shiela," continued Cardross. "Hamil, you'll amuse
yourself, won't you, until I return after luncheon? Shiela, Mr. Hamil
doesn't care to play tennis; so if you'll find out what he does care to
do--" He saluted the young people gaily and started across the lawn
where a very black boy with a chair stood ready to convey him to the
village and across the railroad tracks to that demure little
flower-embowered cottage the interior of which presents such an amazing
contrast to the exterior.
CHAPTER VI
ARMISTICE
The young girl beside him had finished her guava, and now, idly swinging
her tennis-bat, stood watching the games in the sunken courts below.
"Please don't consider me a burden," he said. "I would be very glad to
sit here and watch you play."
"I have been playing, thank you."
"But you won't let me interfere with anything that--"
"No, Mr. Hamil, I won't let you interfere--with anything."
She stood swinging her bat, apparently preoccupied with her own
thoughts--like a very grave goddess, he thought, glancing at her
askance--a very young goddess, immersed in celestial reverie far beyond
mortal comprehension.
"Do you like guavas?" she inquired. And, closing her own question: "But
you had better not until you are acclimated. Do you feel very sleepy,
Mr. Hamil?"
"No, I don't," he said.
"Oh! You ought to conform to tradition. There's a particularly alluring
hammock on the veranda."
"To get rid of me is it necessary to make me take a nap?" he protested.
"So you refuse to go to sleep?"
"I certainly do."
She sighed and tucked the tennis-bat under her left arm. "Come," she
said, moving forward, "my father will ask me what I have done to amuse
you, and I had better hunt up something to tell him about. You'll want
to see the groves of course--"
"Yes, but I'm not going to drag you about with me--"
"Come," she repeated; and as he stood his ground obstinately:
"Please?"--with a rising inflection hinting at command.
"Why on earth don't you play tennis and let me sit and watch you?" he
asked, joining and keeping step with her.
"Why do you ask a woman for reasons, Mr. Hamil?"
"It's too bad to spoil your morning--"
"I know it; so in revenge I'm going to spoil yours. Our trip is called
'Seeing Florida,' so you must listen to your guide very attentively.
This is a pomelo grove--thank you," to the negro who opened the
gate--"here you see blossoms and ripe fruit together on the same tree. A
few palmettos have been planted here for various agricultural reasons.
This is a camphor bush"--touching it with her bat--"the leaves when
crushed in the palm exhale a delightful fragr--"
"Calypso!"
She turned toward him with coldest composure. "That never happened,
Mr. Hamil."
"No," he said, "it never did."
A slight colour remained in his face; hers was cool enough.
"Did you think it happened?" she asked. He shook his head. "No," he
repeated seriously, "I know that it never happened."
She said: "If you are quite sure it never happened, there is no harm in
pretending it did.... What was it you called me?"
"I could never remember, Miss Cardross--unless you tell me."
"Then I'll tell you--if you are quite sure you don't remember. You
called me 'Calypso.'"
And looking up he surprised the rare laughter in her eyes.
"You are rather nice after all," she said, "or is it only that I have
you under such rigid discipline? But it was very bad taste in you to
recall so crudely what never occurred--until I gave you the liberty to
do it. Don't you think so?"
"Yes, I do," he said. "I've made two exhibitions of myself since I knew
you--"
"One, Mr. Hamil. Please recollect that I am scarcely supposed to know
how many exhibitions of yourself you may have made before we were
formally presented."
She stood still under a tree which drooped like a leaf-tufted umbrella,
and she said, swinging her racket: "You will always have me at a
disadvantage. Do you know it?"
"That is utterly impossible!"
"Is it? Do you mean it?"
"I do with all my heart--"
"Thank you; but do you mean it with all your logical intelligence, too?"
"Yes, of course I do."
She stood, head partly averted, one hand caressing the smooth,
pale-yellow fruit which hung in heavy clusters around her. And all
around her, too, the delicate white blossoms poured out fragrance, and
the giant swallow-tail butterflies in gold and black fluttered and
floated among the blossoms or clung to them as though stupefied by their
heavy sweetness.
"I wish we had begun--differently," she mused.
"I don't wish it."
She said, turning on him almost fiercely: "You persisted in talking to
me in the boat; you contrived to make yourself interesting without being
offensive--I don't know how you managed it! And then--last night--I was
not myself.... And then--that happened!"
"Could anything more innocent have happened?"
"Something far more dignified could have happened when I heard you say
'Calypso.'" She shrugged her shoulders. "It's done; we've misbehaved;
and you will have to be dreadfully careful. You will, won't you? And yet
I shall certainly hate you heartily if you make any difference between
me and other women. Oh, dear!--Oh, dear! The whole situation is just
unimportant enough to be irritating. Mr. Hamil, I don't think I care for
you very much."
And as he looked at her with a troubled smile, she added:
"You must not take that declaration too literally. Can you
forget--various things?"
"I don't want to, Miss Cardross. Listen: nobody could be more sweet,
more simple, more natural than the girl I spoke to--I dreamed that I
talked with--last night. I don't want to forget that night, or that
girl. Must I?"
"Are you, in your inmost thoughts, fastidious in thinking of that girl?
Is there any reservation, any hesitation?"
He said, meeting her eyes: "She is easily the nicest girl I ever
met--the very nicest. Do you think that I might have her for a friend?"
"Do you mean this girl, Calypso?"
"Yes."
"Then I think that she will return to you the exact measure of
friendship that you offer her.... Because, Mr. Hamil, she is after all
not very old in years, and a little sensitive and impressionable."
He thought to himself: "She is a rather curious mixture of impulse and
reason; of shyness and audacity; of composure and timidity; of courage
and cowardice and experience. But there is in her no treachery; nothing
mentally unwholesome."
They stood silent a moment smiling at each other rather seriously; then
her smooth hand slid from his, and she drew a light breath.
"What a relief!" she said.
"What?"
"To know you are the kind of man I knew you were. That sounds rather
Irish, doesn't it?..." And under her breath--"perhaps it is. God knows!"
Her face grew very grave for a moment, then, as she turned and looked at
him, the shadow fell.
"Do you know--it was absurd of course--but I could scarcely sleep last
night for sheer dread of your coming to-day. And yet I knew what sort of
a man you must be; and this morning"--she shook her head--"I couldn't
endure any breakfast, and I usually endure lots; so I took a spin down
