Two of the passengers left, one came in. The horses had a drink and on
they went over hill and dale, through great farms, where there were not
more than two or three houses in sight. The stage stopped for a man who
gave a loud halloo, and he climbed in. Then the horn gave another loud
signal.
So it went on. Some places were very pretty, great fields of corn waving
in the sunshine, potatoes, stubble where grain had been cut, stretches
of woodland, high, rather rough hills, then towns again. The sun went
under a cloud, which made it pleasanter. The passengers changed now and
then. One woman told her next neighbor "she was goin' in to Boston to
shop, because things were cheaper now. She always went after the rush
was over. There were cambrics, she heard, for one and ninepence, and
cotton cloth home-made was so much cheaper than the imported, but you
had to bleach it. And little traps that you couldn't get at a country
store."
Cynthia was tired and sleepy when they reached their journey's end,
which was Marlborough Street, where Cousin Giles had an office.
"Well! well! well!" he ejaculated in surprise. "Why, Miss Cynthia
Leverett, I'm glad to see you. Have you come to town to shop?"
Chilian made a little sign. "She has a whole month's vacation and we are
going to fill it up with journeys, taking Boston first."
"That's right. We shall have lots to show her. You'll hardly want to go
back to Salem. It was a long warm ride, wasn't it? Chilian, take off her
hat. Don't you want a drink?"
"I am thirsty," she admitted.
He fixed a glass of lemonade, and lemons were dear at that
period--scarce, too. While she was sipping it, being refreshed in every
pulse, the two men went down to the end of the room for a talk.
"She's dreadfully disfigured," Chilian said in a low tone. "And
Elizabeth wasn't a bad-looking woman. The doctor thinks she can't live
but a few days, her body is growing cold rapidly. I'd like to have the
child out of it all. Death is a great shock and very mysterious to a
child."
"Oh, I'll be glad to keep her, if she will stay content. I wish you
could have brought that woman with you. Poor Elizabeth! How Eunice will
miss her. Chilian, you've been like a son to those women. Women ought to
marry and have children of their own, but children are not always kind.
Yes. After you're rested we'll go home. I'm going to change my office,
get nearer to the business centre, only this is so pleasant with a nice
outlook."
"You ought to retire."
"Oh, what would I do? Like that Roman fellow, buy a farm? I don't know a
bit about farming and don't want to. There's so much going on here."
Presently they returned to the little girl, who was quite refreshed, and
then they went out, as it would be dinner-time presently. Cousin Giles
lived in Cambridge Street in quite an imposing row, though it had no
such spacious grounds as at Salem.
An immaculate black man opened the door and took the men's hats. "Ask
Mrs. Stevens to come down," Cousin Giles said.
Mrs. Stevens seemed a great lady. Eudora Castleton's mother was like
this, always looking as if she was dressed for a party. She had a pretty
silk gown, with some ruffles about the bottom, short enough to show her
clocked silk stockings. The waist was short also, the square neck filled
in with lace, and great balloon sleeves--so large at the top they came
almost up to her ears.
"This is the little girl who came from India, that I told you about, and
who is going to be a great lady some day. When she gets older we'll have
to have her down here to Boston, and give balls and parties for her, and
pick out a fine lover for her; hey, Cynthia?"
Cynthia turned scarlet.
"I think you must be warm and tired with the long stage ride; wouldn't
you like to come upstairs with me?"
Cynthia rose as Cousin Chilian looked approval, and followed up the
stairway, where her feet sank in the carpet. There were several rooms,
with the air blowing through delightfully, and there was fragrance
everywhere from vases of flowers.
Mrs. Stevens took off her hat and inspected her. She was going to be a
big heiress and a pretty girl in the bargain, piquant with a slightly
foreign look, though perhaps it was more in her manner.
"Susan," she called to a girl sewing in the next room, "come and wash
this little visitor's hands and face. She has come all the way from
Salem this morning. I wish we had a fresh frock for you, but we have no
little girls."
The voice was so soft and charming that Cynthia looked up with a kind of
admiring smile.
Susan took off her frock, bathed her face and hands with some perfumed
water, brushed out her hair, and said, "What lovely hair you have, and
so much of it. A queen might envy you!"
The idea of a queen wanting anything she had! Oh, how nice and refreshed
she felt.
Susan shook out the frock and put it on again, pulled out the sleeves,
smoothed the wrinkled skirt, and took her in the next room.
"It rests one so much. Are you hungry? We shall have dinner in half an
hour."
"Oh, no," Cynthia said. "And--and I am very much obliged to Susan."
"Come and sit here. Tell me how the aunties are--the one with the broken
limb."
"I think she isn't so well. Yesterday she was so much improved. The
doctor was there this morning."
"Poor lady! She has been ill a long while. And you are quite at home in
Salem, I suppose? You had a long journey. Did you like India?"
"Father was there;" with a sweet, attractive simplicity. "And some of it
was very beautiful. Oh, I almost froze the first winter here, but last
winter I didn't mind. And the sleigh-riding was splendid."
"Are there many little girls to be friends with?"
"Oh, I go to a nice school. And we have so many funny plays and dancing
once a week. I didn't tease about it, though I wanted to go, and Cousin
Chilian said I might. It's queer, but in India they come and dance for
you, and you pay them. But it is lovely to do it for yourself;" and she
made some graceful motions with her hands, while her beautiful eyes were
alight with emotion, as if she heard the music.
"Did you ever want to go back?"
"At first. But when I heard that father had gone away, he had meant to
come to Salem, but----" she made a pause, "mother was there in India.
Only the bodies, you know, the other part that thinks and feels is in
heaven. He wanted mother so much. He used to talk about her. And now I
am going to live in Salem with Cousin Chilian all my life long."
How simply sweet she was, with no self-consciousness.
Then they were summoned to dinner. The elegant black servant waited on
them, and that suggested India again. They went out on a back porch and
sat in the shade. Cousin Giles found an opportunity to explain the
matter to Mrs. Stevens, and after that the men went out for a while.
Quite in the afternoon there were calls from stylishly-dressed ladies,
and cake and cool drinks were brought in. Then Cousin Chilian told her
that he would like her to stay all night and he would come in to-morrow.
She didn't want to a bit. "Why, I would be very quiet and not disturb
Cousin Elizabeth," she said, with beseeching eyes.
"Will you not do it to please me?"
She choked down a great lump. "Oh, yes," she answered in a low tone,
without looking up. But it seemed very queer to her to be left this way.
There was company in the evening--quite a party playing cards. She had
a pretty story book to read until Susan came to put her to bed. And what
a delightful little bed it was, like her little pallet at home, so much
nicer than the big bed at Salem.
She would not show that she was homesick, for so many nice things were
being done for her. A note came from Chilian--Cousin Elizabeth was very
ill, and he hoped she would be content. Some clothes were sent for her,
some of her very best ones, and she was glad to have them.
There were so many things to see in Boston, really much more than at
Salem. They were putting up some fine public buildings. And there was
Bunker Hill and Copp's Hill, and, down near the bay, Fort Hill. There
seemed little rivers running all about and submerged lands.
There were many other entertainments and her days were full. Mrs.
Stevens sent out some cards and seven or eight young girls came in and
chatted quite like the grown-up ladies, asking her about Salem, and
being not a little surprised that she had lived in India. They had a
pretty sort of half tea, cakes and delicacies after the thin bread and
butter, and a most delightful cool drink that seemed to have all flavors
in it. One of the girls played on the spinet afterward. So she had her
first party at Cousin Giles', instead of Salem.
Notes came from Cousin Chilian, and at last the welcome news that he was
coming down for her.
She had come to like Cousin Giles very much. He was so different from
Chilian--breezy and rather teasing--and, oh, what would Cousin Elizabeth
have said to his fashion of getting things about, putting papers or
books on chairs, mislaying his glasses and his gloves, and she would
think the fine furniture, and the servants, and the little feasts
awfully extravagant.
Poor Elizabeth! She had never come back to consciousness. She had shrunk
intensely from the last moment when she would have to face death and the
judgment, though she had been striving all her life to prepare for it.
But God had mercifully spared her that, the two worlds had touched and
merged with each other and left her to God.
There had been a quiet funeral, though it was well attended, but the
coffin was closed and a pall thrown over it, for the poor face had never
recovered its natural look.
All this was softened to Cynthia, as she sat with Cousin Chilian's arm
about her. She had the sweet remembrance of that last day, and the smile
that somehow had made the wrinkled face pretty. It had been thoughtful
and tender in Cousin Chilian to spare her the rest.
They went over to Cambridge and he took her through the place that was
to be so much grander before she was done with life. And here was the
house where he had lived through the week, going home to spend Sundays,
for his father was alive then. And he told her stories about old Boston,
some quaintly funny, but she was rather proud that Salem had been the
first capital of the State.
"I've had such a nice time," she said with her adieu. "Every day has
been full of pleasure. I thank you both very much."
She was to come again, and again, they rejoined cordially.
"What a nice child!" Cousin Giles said. "She doesn't seem to consider
what an heiress she is. And she's enough like Chilian to be his own
child. He always had that dainty way with him, like a woman, and
everything must be fine and nice, yet he never was ostentatious. She'll
make a charming young woman. I wish I could persuade Chilian to come to
Boston."
Chilian had driven in with the carriage. There had been a shower in the
night and the travelling was delightful. He had missed his little girl
so much, yet he knew it had been better to save her the poignancy of the
sad occurrence. So her father had thought in his trusting appeal.
CHAPTER XII
CHANGES IN THE OLD HOUSE
There was not as much change in household affairs as Cynthia supposed
there would be. Elizabeth had been laid by so long that her place at the
table had been filled by Eunice. Indeed, the former had an unfortunate
habit of running out in the kitchen to see to something, then returning,
pouring a cup of tea, passing some article of food, then disappearing
again. It had grown on her, the belief that she must be everywhere or
something would go wrong. It did annoy Chilian. And no one hustled up
the dishes when you had eaten the last crumb of cake. He liked to linger
over the table.
Eunice was very glad to see her. Rachel took her wrap and her parcel
upstairs, for supper had been waiting. Eunice poured the tea, Rachel
passed the eatables, and they were both eager to hear how it had fared
with the little girl.
"It's been just splendid! Mrs. Stevens is--well, she is grand, and, oh,
you ought to see the beautiful gowns she wears; but she doesn't hold you
way off. You can come up close and lean on her shoulder or her lap. They
were both so good. And, look! Cousin Giles would buy me these two
rings;" and she held up her hand laughingly. "And an elegant necklace. I
told him there were so many things here that were my mother's, but he
wouldn't mind. And slippers! There's white, and a kind of gray, and a
bronze, and a red pair. The little girls wear them when they come from
school and go out to companies. Oh, Cousin Chilian, doesn't any one play
on the spinet? I'd like to learn."
"It's very old. It was mother's. I think we must have a new one. And you
can learn."
"Oh, I shall be so glad."
Mrs. Taft was out in the kitchen. "Now you all go your ways," she began.
"'Taint nothing to clear off the supper table."
They sat out on the front porch. But through the talk Cynthia kept
thinking of poor Cousin Elizabeth and feeling sorry she had not enjoyed
more of the pleasures of life. Was there so much real virtue in making
life hard and cold? But there were some girls in school who were very
much afraid of dancing and reading story-books.
Truth to tell, as Chilian listened, he came to experience a queer
feeling--he would have scouted the idea of jealousy about Cousin Giles,
but that he should have devoted himself so much to her and taken her
about, wanted to buy trinkets for her and all that! There was still a
week of vacation left. They would go somewhere to-morrow.
He had asked Mrs. Taft to stay with them.
"Well, I can't exactly promise. You see, I like to 'wrastle' with things
and fight off the worst. Though I hadn't much hope of 'Lisbeth when the
doctor said her spine was hurt. That's a kind of queer hidden thing that
even doctors can't see into. And the poor creature suffered a good deal.
My, but she was spunky and was bound not to die, and I fought for her
all I could. But the last few weeks there was a change. She liked Cynthy
to come in with the posies and say something bright. And now it's all
done and over, and she was a good upright woman in the old-fashioned
way. So I'll stay a spell till Miss Eunice gets used to the change, and
when I see another good fight somewhere, you mustn't have hard feelings
if I go."
They went out the next morning and found a boat going up to Plum Island.
It was like going to sea to go around Rockport Point. Captain Green
declared "he wan't much on passengers, but he had a nice cabin and an
awning on the for'ard deck, and there was a woman and some children
whose husband living up there had bespoke passage."
It was a fine day with the right sort of wind. Oh, how splendid it was
as they went out oceanward. She had been on the water such a very little
since her long voyage.
Mrs. Halcom had three children and a baby. She was a plain, commonplace
body, who had been living up to North Salem, but her folks were
Newburyport people and she should be glad to get in sight and sound of
them once again. Chilian had brought a book along, Ben Johnson's Plays,
and now and then he met with such a charming line or two he must read it
to her. There were some new poets coming to the fore as well, but he
knew most of the older ones. Oh, he must get back his youth for her
sake. Cousin Giles was ever so much older.
She was interested in the ship as well and talked to Captain Green. He
had so many funny nautical terms, provincialisms, that she had to
inquire what some of the words meant. For most of the early people of
New England had not dropped into the careless modes of speech that were
to come later on and be adopted as a sort of patois. They read their
Bibles a good deal and the older divines, and if their speech was a
little stilted it had a certain correctness. Then Chilian Leverett was
rather fastidious in this respect.
The wind filled the sails and they skimmed along merrily. Now the sea
was green and so clear you could see the fish disporting themselves.
Then the sun tinted it with gold and threw up diamond, amethyst, and
emeralds, taunting one with treasures.
There are new names along the coast, though a few of the old ones
remain. They passed Gloucester, Thatcher's Island, rounded Rockport,
where in the inside harbor they had to unload part of their cargo. Then
on to Plum Island, where the rest were set ashore and the woman and her
children. Some few things were taken on board, but they were to stop at
Gloucester, going down for the return cargo.
They walked about a little and bought some ripe, luscious dewberries and
fruit.
"How queer it would be to live on an island and have to take your boat
when you went anywhere," and Cynthia laughed gayly.
"People do, farther up. There are a great many islands on the coast of
Maine, and fishermen are living on them."
"And in Boston Harbor Cousin Giles took us out. It's funny that they
don't float off. Do they go 'way down to the bottom of the sea?"
"I think they must. Sometimes one does disappear."
"Suppose you were living on it. And you saw the water coming up all
around you and you couldn't get away----"
Her eyes filled with a kind of terror.
"Oh, you would have some boats."
"But if it happened in the night?"
"We won't go and live on an island," he said with a smile.
It was rougher going back, but not bad enough to cause any alarm. The
wind had died down, but the swells were coming in. They stopped at
Gloucester and took on some boxes and great planks, and several pieces
of furniture.
"There's enough old truck in Salem now," declared Captain Green
ungraciously. "'F I had my way I'd turn it out on the Common and put a
match to it. Now there's the Hibbins--came over in 1680 and brought
their housen goods. There wan't any way of makin' 'em then but just
outen rough logs. An' now the old granma'am's died and 'twas her
mother's, I b'lieve, and Mis' Hibbins she's just gone crazy over it. And
they're buildin' a fine new house. Strange how Salem's buildin' up!
Those East Ingy traders do make lots of money. But before I'd have that
old truck in my nice new house!" And the captain gave a snort of
disdain.
He did not dream that before another hundred years had passed there
would be comparative fortunes made in the old truck.
"We'll be a little late gettin' in, but there'll be a moon. Lucky wind
ain't dead agin us."
How good the supper tasted, for Cynthia was very hungry. And then they
went on and on, hugging the shore, the captain said, until it was a kind
of shadowy waving blur, but on the other side most beautiful. It made
her think of coming from India, but she was glad to see the vague
outline of the shore.
The captain was much surprised that she had been such a traveller. He
had been to New York and all around Long Island, and up as far as Nova
Scotia. The Bay of Fundy was wonderful, with its strange dangerous
tides.
"We will go there another summer," Chilian said, holding her hand, and
she returned the soft pressure.
"I was 'most afraid something had happened." Eunice had gone down the
street to meet them. "But it's clear as a bell and no wind to speak of,
and the captains of the coasting vessels know every inch of the way."
"Only just lovely things happened. It's been splendid. But I'm hungry
again. Can't I have a second supper?"
How different she looked from the little girl who had come to him for
care and friendship. And he had been rather unwilling to accept her. She
was growing tall, and--yes, really pretty.
They had one more excursion to Winter Island. Why, it seemed as if they
were building ships enough for the whole world. And there were the
fisheries, and the curious musical singing, not really words, but sort
of detached sounds that floated off in a weird kind of way.
After that school again. She was glad to see the girls, and Madam Torrey
gave her a warm welcome, saying, "Why, Miss Cynthia, how tall you have
grown!"
"I'm very glad," she said smilingly. "All the Leveretts are tall, but I
don't ever want to be very large."
"And she had really been to Boston! Was it so much handsomer than Salem?
They had a real theatre, and parties, and balls. Sadie Adams' big
sister was going to spend the whole winter there."
Chilian Leverett decided to alter his house a little. The two rooms at
the back had always seemed crowded up, though Elizabeth preferred a
separate one so long as they connected. But he had the memory of the
poor drawn face, as he had seen it the morning of her seizure. Wouldn't
Eunice recall it as well?
"I think I will make some alterations," he announced to her. "I'll push
that upstairs room out over the summer kitchen and make it a good deal
larger. While they are doing it, Eunice, you had better go over the
other side and let Mrs. Taft take your room."
She assented, though she thought the house and the rooms were large
enough for the few people in it. Cynthia was interested in her studies,
and the girls, and the new books coming in. For now Sir Walter Scott was
having a great hearing, and there were some new poets.
It was not expected that people would be at all gay when there had been
a death in the family, so Cynthia felt compelled to decline her few
invitations. The new room was finished and made much brighter with the
two added windows. The walls were painted a soft gray, with a warm tint.
There were yards and yards of new rag carpet up in the garret, sewed in
bagging to keep out moths. Of course, it might as well be used. The old
bedstead was taken out and though the one substituted was quite as old,
it was very much prettier, with its carved posts and the tester frame
from which depended white curtains. Some of the other furniture was
changed and it made a very pretty room, so Eunice came back to it very
much pleased, though not quite sure so much comeliness was best for the
soul.
At Christmas Chilian took the little girl down to Boston on a special
invitation. There were two visitors a little older than herself, one
whose father was a representative from the State, the other from New
York.
Washington was not much thought of in those days. Other cities had
yielded their claims unwillingly, and there had been much talk of its
being set in a morass. Mrs. President Adams had described her
infelicities very graphically. The rooms were not finished, and she took
one of the parlors for an adjunct to the laundry to dry the wash in. New
York considered itself the great head for fashion and gayety, Boston for
education and refinement, and she too, had quite an extensive port
trade.
But Giles Leverett thought the little girl from Salem was quite as
pretty and well bred as Boston girls, and really she never seemed at
loss now, and was seldom overtaken with a fit of shyness. They had a
gay, happy time, with a regular dancing party, which filled Cynthia with
the utmost delight.
And though the winter seemed cold and bleak spring came again, as it
always does. Mrs. Taft had gone away to another bad case. Eunice and
Miss Winn kept the house. There had been quite an entertaining episode
with Miss Winn. A very prosperous man, who lived up on the North side,
and had a fine house and five children, asked her to be his wife,
thinking she would make such an excellent mother for girls. It was
supposed at that time that no woman could refuse a good offer of
marriage.
"Consider it well," said Mr. Leverett. "I don't know how we could give
you up, and, of course, you could not take Cynthia. Her father made a
generous provision for you, and I think he chose wisely for his child.
But----"
"I don't know that I want to begin over again," and she gave a peculiar
smile. "Five seems quite an undertaking when you have had only one. And
you have taken so much the charge of her."
"But you see, now she will need a woman's guidance more than ever. She
has outgrown childhood. I see the change in her every day. Eunice could
not supervise her clothes and her pleasures, times have changed so much.
I want her to be very happy and have a life like other girls----"
She thought she could give up the prospect good as it was, won by that
persuasive voice. And she had come to really love Miss Eunice, who was
blossoming in a new phase now that there was nothing to restrain her
natural sweetness.
"I promised her father to do the best I could for her. I love her very
much. I enjoy the home here. I do not think I could be any happier. And
I am so used to owning myself that I do not feel disposed to give up my
liberty. If I had no prospect, I might consider it. And Cynthia will
need some one as she grows older to see that she makes the right sort of
acquaintances and guide her a little."
"Then since all is agreeable we can count on your staying. You cannot
imagine my own thankfulness;" and he pressed her hand cordially.
"Isn't it funny!" cried Cynthia. "Why, Margaret Plummer goes to Madam
Torrey's, but she is very--well, I don't know just how to describe it,
only she said once that they would all make the house too hot to hold a
step-mother. And, oh, dear Rachel, I couldn't bear to have anybody ugly
to you. And then you know we couldn't give you up. Cousin Chilian said
so, and Miss Eunice cried."
Miss Winn winked some tears out of her eyes, though she tried to smile.
It was very comforting to a woman without kith or kin to feel so welcome
in a household.
Cynthia was sitting on the step of the porch one May night when the moon
was making shifting shadows through the trees and silvering the paths.
Chilian was studying the face, and wondering a little what was flitting
through the brain that now and then gave it such intentness.
"What are you thinking about?" he asked.
"Oh, Cousin Chilian!" She flushed a lovely, rosy glow. "Building an air
castle."
"Is it very airy? So far that it would be a journey for another person
to reach it?"
"Oh, part of it is near by. The other is what could be, maybe;"
wistfully.
"Can't I hear about it?"
"Cousin Chilian, why are the parlors always shut up, and why don't you
have people coming and going, and saying bright things, and talking
about the improvements and--and Napoleon and the wars in Europe, and the
new streets and houses, and, oh, ever so many things?"
He looked at the tightly closed shutters. In his father's time there
were visitors, discussions, playing at whist and loo, and little
suppers. She wouldn't care for that, of course. Yet he remembered that
she had been interested in the talks at Boston.
"Why, yes; the rooms could be opened. Only we have grown so at home in
the sitting-room, and you and I in the study."
"At the Dearborns' they keep the house all open and lighted up, as they
do in Boston. And they ask in young people and have plays, and charades,
and funny conundrums----"
Oh, she was young and should have this kind of life. How should he set
about it? He must ask Miss Winn. But he ventured rather timidly, for a
man.
"Would you like--well, some girls in to tea? They ask you so often. And
there is no reason why we should all be hermits."
She sprang up and clasped her arms about his neck.
"Oh, I just should. At first when Cousin Elizabeth went away, and the
lessons were difficult, and it was winter, but now everything seems so
joyous----"
"Why, yes; we must talk to Miss Winn about it, Cynthia," and his voice
dropped to a tender inflection. "I want you to feel this is your home
and you must have all the joy and pleasures of youth. You need never be
afraid. I've been a rather dull old fellow----"
"Oh, you're not old. You're not as old as Cousin Giles, and ever so much
handsomer. The girls at school think," she flushed and paused, "that you
were so good to get me the pony and the pretty wagon." She was going to
say something much more flattering, but delicacy stopped her.
"My dear," he said gravely, "I was glad to make you the gift, but I want
you to know that there is a considerable sum of money of your own, and
your father wished you to enjoy it. Whatever you want and is proper for
you to have, I shall be glad to get, and to do. For I have no little
girl but you."
"Would it be wicked and selfish if I said I was glad?"
The arms tightened a little. How soft they were! And her hair brushed
his cheek. It always seemed to have a delicate subtle perfume.
"No, dear. You and I are curiously alone in the world. I haven't a first
cousin, neither have you."
"And a whole houseful of folks is so nice," she said wistfully.
He had been very well content with his books and his college friends.
But women were different, at least--those who shut out everybody
narrowed their lives fearfully.
"We will try and have some."
"And you must like it. If you do not, the greatest pleasure will be
taken out of it for me."
"I shall like it;" encouragingly.
"How good you are to me. Father said I must love you and obey you, for
you would know what would be best for me."
Then they sat in silence, the contentment of affection.
He spoke to Miss Winn the next day. Afterward they went into the parlor
and opened the shutters. It was stately, grand, and gloomy.
Before Anthony Leverett had thought of sending his little girl to his
care he had forwarded to Chilian a gift "for old remembrance' sake," he
said, of a very handsome Oriental rug. Floors of the "best rooms" had
been polished until you could see your shadow in them. Chilian did not
like the noise or the continual trouble. So he laid down the rug and
bought one for the other room. But the heavy curtains, with their silken
linings, staid up year after year. He noticed those at Giles' house were
much lighter and in soft colors. And his furniture was not so massive.
"I wish we could change things a little. That old sofa might go up in
the new room. It was grand enough in my father's time, with its borders
of brass-headed tacks, and its flat, hard seat. Two of these chairs
might come up in my room."
"I wish we could find a place for the lovely sort of cabinet that
Cynthia's father sent over. I keep it covered from dust and scratches.
She will be glad to have it when she has a house of her own."
"One of the rooms ought to be hers--well, both," he added reflectively.
"The rugs are elegant. Yes, lighter curtains would change it a good
deal. How very handsome the mantels are with all their carving."
They would have adorned a modern house. They went nearly up to the
ceiling with small shelves and nooks, on which were vases and ornaments
such as bring fortunes now.
"And--about the party?"
"Oh, that will be only a girls' tea--her schoolmates where she has been.
Next year will be time enough for the party;" with a little laugh.
So the two spacious rooms were quite remodelled and modernized, and the
gloomy appearance was a thing of the past. Why shouldn't he spend his
money on her? There was no one else.
He had not lost sight of Anthony Drayton. The father had been exigent.
Anthony, being the eldest, must take the farm when he was done with it.
The lad had worked his time out. Cousin Chilian had offered him enough
to take him to a preparatory school where he would be fitted for
college. He had come in to Boston and Chilian had been attracted to the
manly young fellow.
Cynthia was more than delighted with the privilege of the tea party.
"Some of the girls have brothers, but I don't know them very well. I
like Bentley, but he is away at school. And I'd rather have just girls."
Her admiration of the parlor knew no bounds, and it gratified him.
She had been taking lessons on the spinet, but the painting was a great
rival. And this was old, thin, and creaky.
"I have found a much better one in Boston, and the dealer wants this
because it was made in London in 1680. How strenuous some people are
over old things. It has no special interest that I know of, and is
comparatively useless."
The new ones were really the beginning of pianofortes and this one was
very sweet in tone.
Chilian had been very greatly interested in the changes. He began to
cultivate his neighbors a little more. Indeed improvements were taking
place in the town. New streets were laid out, old ones straightened,
fine new houses built. There seemed a sudden outburst of commercial
grandeur. Furnishings of the richest sort were eagerly caught up by the
shoppers, who did not think it necessary to go to Boston and buy goods
that had come in port here. Many of the old wooden houses were replaced
with brick, and the beautiful doorways, windows, roofs, and porches
still attract craftsmen and architects from different sections of the
country, while illustrators find rich material in old Colonial doorways.
Miss Winn consulted Mrs. Upham as to what was proper for a girls' tea.
"Miss Cynthia is old enough now to begin with friends in a simple
manner. The family have lived so quietly that I have not gained much
experience in such matters, and Miss Eunice doesn't feel equal to
managing it. Of course, Miss Cynthia is quite an heiress and will go in
with the best people."
"As the Leveretts always have. There's been many a cap set for Chilian
Leverett and it's been a wonder to every one that he hasn't married. But
there's time enough yet."
She came over and admired the parlors without stint.
"You see," she said confidentially, "Miss Elizabeth was no hand for
company. Some of the older people did the same, shut up the best rooms
lest they should get faded, or something scratched, or worn. And I
suppose he kept giving in; then there was his going in to college, and
that's a sort of man's life. I'm glad he has had something to stir him
up. He has been to several town-meetings. They are talking up
improvements. It's a fine thing to have so many vessels flying Salem
flags in different ports; nigh on to two hundred registered, husband
said. But I told him there ought to be some home interest as well. We
must not let Boston get so far ahead of us, nor forget the young people
are to be the next generation."
"And young people want some pleasure. I do not see how they stood so
much of the gloomy side twenty years ago. I was that surprised when I
first came here."
"Well, there had been a good many things, and all that witchcraft
business. Puritan ways grew sterner and sterner. I can't say that people
were really the better for it, in my way of thinking, and the Saviour
talked a good deal about loving and helping people. He didn't stop to
make them subscribe to all sorts of hard things before he worked a
miracle. But we were going to talk about the tea."
"Yes; about what time now? I want Cynthia to have it just right and
proper;" laughing.
"They come--we'll say about four. They will want to run around and see
things, and I'd have supper about five and they'll sit over it, and
talk, and laugh. Suppose I send my 'Mimy over to pass things and wait.
You would not want Miss Eunice to do it, and you will have other things
on your hands."
"Oh, thank you. You are very kind about it."
"Well, I've had a girl to grow up and be married, and Polly's to leave
school this summer, and next winter she will be setting up for a young
lady. Little cookies and spicenuts are nice and two kinds of cake. You
never give them real tea, you know, though it's called a tea party. And
some cold chicken, or sliced ham. I'd spread the plates of bread, it's
so much less trouble. They'll be sure to enjoy everything. A lot of
girls always do have a good time."
CHAPTER XIII
A TASTE OF PLEASURE
Cynthia was full of joy, running down to the gate to meet and greet
guests. They came in groups of twos and threes, having called for each
other. There were fifteen in all--the girls she knew best, who were
nearest her own age, and at most of the houses she had been made a
welcome guest. Indeed, more than one mother was glad to have her
daughter good friends with Miss Cynthia Leverett, who was to be a rich
young woman, and whose trustee in Boston lived in fine style.
Yet it was not exactly that money was so much thought of either, though
it was always esteemed an excellent thing. Somehow it was rather
relegated to the men. A father had an idea that his daughters would
marry well, so business opportunities, and often the homestead, went to
the sons. Here was an undivided fortune. And now it was hardly likely
Chilian Leverett would marry, so she might come in for that.
The house had always been considered rather gloomy, as even on state
occasions not much light was allowed in the parlors. Some of the girls
had been gently advised to notice if there had been changes made.
Cynthia led them upstairs to take off their things. They were rather
particular about complexions in those days. Some of the summer hats were
really ornate sunbonnets, others were the great poke shape with a big
bow on top and wide strings that were allowed to float on a hot day, so
as not to get crushed by the warmth under the chin. They had long muslin
sleeves to pull over their arms, indeed some of them were finished with
mittens, so that the hands might not get tanned.
The girls wore rather scant straight skirts, tucked up to the waist, or
with needlework at the bottom, or two or three tiny ruffles. The
stockings were not always white, oftener they matched the color of the
slippers that were laced across the instep. The necks were cut square,
often finished with a lace berthe. Some old families have handed these
down and kept them laid away in rose leaves and lavender, and they are
so sweet that when they are shaken out they perfume the room.
Cynthia wore a white gauzy frock made over blue silk that was soft as a
pansy leaf. It had blue satin stripes and she was very glad she had the
pretty blue slippers to match. Then almost every girl had a coral
necklace, or was allowed to wear grandmother's gold beads. Some had
their hair tied up high on their heads with a great bow, and maybe the
family silver or gold comb put in artistically. Chilian liked the
little girl's to hang loose, and now it was down to her waist.
It was said the Holland wives of centuries ago took their visitors
through their wardrobes and displayed their silk and velvet gowns. And
when England passed some sumptuary laws that no one below titled rank
should wear silk, the good wives of traders lined theirs with silk and
hung them up in grand array to gratify their visitors or themselves.
"You have so many lovely things," said a girl enviously. "I haven't but
one silk frock, and that was Mary's until she outgrew it. And mother's
so choice of it; she thinks it ought to last and go to Ruth."
"Why, you see, so many things came from India," apologized Cynthia,
almost ashamed of having so much. "And there's a boxful upstairs, but I
think I like the white muslins best, they look so pretty when they are
clean, and you don't have to be so careful."
"Do you ever get scolded when accidents happen?"
"Well, not much. Cousin Eunice is so sweet. Cousin Elizabeth was more
particular."
"And Miss Winn?"
"Oh, my dear Rachel loves me too much," the child said laughingly.
There were so many odd and pretty things that they staid up until all
the girls had come--not one of them declined. Then they went down to the
parlors.
"Cousin Chilian said this back room was to be mine. That lovely desk
and the cabinet were my own mother's. And the table is teakwood. The
chair father had carved for me, and that big portrait is father. This
case has miniatures of them both, but it is too big ever to wear."
"What a pity!"
It was a beautifully engraved gold case, set with jewels.
"Well, you are a lucky girl! And you can have all these yourself. You
just don't have to share them with anybody. Is the room truly yours?"
"Why, it is to put my things in, but anybody can come in it, and we can
go in the other room. Most of those articles were Cousin Chilian's
father's and mother's, and the great clock in the hall came over in
1640. It's funny;" and she laughed. "Old furniture and quilts and things
never get cross and queer as folks sometimes do."
"Well, they're not really alive."
"And they last so much longer than folks."
They had not inspected all the things when Miss Winn invited them out to
supper. She took the head of the table, and began to talk so that they
should not feel embarrassed. The lovely old china was on the table, and
two vases of flowers that looked as if they were set with gems. 'Mimy
passed the plates of bread and butter and cold meats and cottage cheese,
and after a little they all began to talk as if it was recess at
school.
Mr. Chilian Leverett passed through the sitting-room and thought it was
really an enchanting sight, and that Cynthia was the prettiest girl of
them all.
People had not thought up ice cream in those days, but they made lovely
custards, baked in cups with handles, and a tiny spoon to eat them with.
They were the last of the tea.
Then they went into the front parlor, which was the larger and played
fox and geese, and blind-man's buff in a ring. Oh, Elizabeth, it was
enough to disturb your rest to have those merry feet twinkle over the
beautiful rug, when you scarcely dared walk tiptoe for fear of crushing
the soft pile. But they had a grand, good time.
Then Mr. Leverett brought in Cousin Eunice, who had a bit of white at
her neck and wrists, and a lavender bow on her cap. She had protested
against the bow, but Miss Winn had carried her point.
Mr. Leverett set them to doing some amusing things he had resurrected
from his own boyhood. Catches on words, such as "Malaga grapes are very
good grapes, but the grapes of Oporto are better." And then, "A hen, a
hen, but not a rooster. Can you say that?" They were greatly puzzled
and looked at Cynthia, who was silently smiling, saying it over in every
manner, until at last one girl almost shrieked out, "That," and there
was a chorus of laughter.
At nine o'clock they were bidden to come home. Some of them were sent
for and those who lived near together went in a group. Ben Upham came
for his sisters.
"I don't see why they couldn't have had boys," said Ben to Polly. "Ever
so many of us would have been glad to come."
"Well, we didn't have any real boys' plays. But the supper was elegant.
And 'Mimy waited so nicely. Cynthia's going to have the back parlor for
hers, and Mr. Leverett has bought a new spinet. And she has the most
beautiful things----"
"Oh, yes, I've seen those;" rather impatiently.
"And Mr. Leverett's just splendid!"
"I always told you so;" somewhat grumpily. "But I'd rather be up in the
study with him and Cynthy than to go to half a dozen parties."
"Oh, we weren't in the study at all."
"No, that isn't for girls." So he had scored one, after all.
It was the general verdict when the tea party was talked over that
Cynthia Leverett was in a fair way of being spoiled. A man didn't know
how to bring up a girl, and, of course, Miss Winn let her have her own
way. Miss Eunice had given in to her sister so long that she gave in to
every one else.
Friends went to call and found the children had not exaggerated. Now and
then a neighbor was asked in to supper, and found Cynthia a nice, modest
girl, with no airs of superiority.
They had some journeys about. They went up to the bay of Fundy and
cruised around, chatting with fishermen and French settlers in their odd
costumes, looked at their funny little huts, and were amazed at the
children rolling round in the sand and the sun. Cousin Chilian talked to
them, but their language was a sort of patois difficult to understand.
After that Cynthia was much interested in the French and English war.
And the whole country was watching the Corsican who had made himself
master of half of Europe.
"It is a wonderful world," Cynthia said when they were safe in the study
again. "And I wonder if it is narrow and selfish to be glad that you are
just you?"
He was amused at the idea. But he couldn't recall that he had ever been
anxious to change with any one.
"And that you are just you. I couldn't like any one else as well,
not even Cousin Giles, and I do like him very much."
Chilian felt a rise of color stealing up his cheek. The preference was
sweet, for Cousin Giles was extremely indulgent to her, and he was not a
child enthusiast either.
In those days no one supposed parents and friends were put in the world
purposely for children's pleasure. They didn't even consider they came
for their pleasure. It was right to have them, they were to be the
future men and women, workers, legislators, and homemakers. They didn't
always have easy times, nor their own way, and they were not thought to
be wiser than their parents, even in the choice of professions for life.
But there were many fine brave fellows among the boys, and the girls
went on, making pretty good wives and mothers. If life did not bring
them just what they wished, they accepted it and did the best they
could.
Anthony Drayton came to make Cousin Chilian a visit and pass an
examination for Harvard. With a little help he had worked his way
through the academy. He was one of the brave, resolute boys, and, though
it grieved him to go against his father's wishes, he had decided for
himself.
"I really could not bury myself on a farm," he confessed. "I want a
wider life, I want to mix with men and take an interest in the country.
Not that I despise farming, and if one could branch out and do many new
things, but to keep on year after year in the old rut, corn and
potatoes, wheat and rye--just as grandfather did. What is the use of a
man living if he can't strike out some new ways? Maybe I'd been willing
to go to the new countries, but father was just as opposed to that."
He was a fresh, fair lad, with eyes of the Leverett blue, a strong, fine
face, not delicate as Cousin Chilian's. His hair was not very dark, but
his brows well defined, and with the eyelashes much darker than the
hair. His voice had such a cheerful uplift.
"You have quite decided then?" Chilian wondered if he could ever have
gone against his father's wishes, but in that case father and son had
similar tastes.
"Oh, yes; I've nothing farther to look for, and I'm willing to leave my
share to the other children. I know I can make my way, and I'm ready to
work and wait."
His voice had such a nice wholesome ring that it inspired you with faith
in him.
Cousin Eunice took a great fancy to him. They talked over the visit of
years ago. It seemed to her as if it had just been the beginning of
things.
One sister was grown up and "keeping company," the other a nice handy
girl. The next brother would be a great help--he cared nothing for
books. Both of the Brent cousins were married, one living on the farm
with his mother, the other having struck out for himself. And Miss Eliza
Leverett was weakly. Like many women of that period, when all hope of
marrying and having a home of her own was past, she sank down into a
gentle nonentity and dreamed of Cousin Chilian. Not that she had
expected to captivate him, but life with some one like that would set
one on the highest pinnacle.
He thought Cousin Cynthia--they were always cousins, to the fourth
generation--was the sweetest, daintiest, and most winsome thing he had
ever seen--and so she was, for his acquaintance with girls had been
limited. They looked over the old treasures in the house and thought it
wonderful any one should ever go to India and return without being
wrecked. They walked about the lovely garden, and he was amazed at her
familiarity with flowers and plants he had never seen.
Then she took him over to the Uphams, for an old friend came in to play
checkers with Cousin Chilian. Polly was bright and merry, but somehow
Ben seemed rather captious. Anthony listened with surprise at the bright
sayings they flung at one another.
The next day he and Cousin Chilian went over topics for examination. His
reading had not been extensive but thorough. In mathematics he was
excellent. But he found some time to chat with Cynthia, and they both
walked down to the warehouse with Cousin Chilian.
What a sight it was! He had read of such things, but to see the hundreds
of busy men, the great fleet of vessels, the docks piled with all kinds
of wares, the boxes and bales lying round in endless confusion. And the
great ocean, lost over beyond in the far-off sky.
When the two had gone up to Boston, Cynthia felt very lonely. She had
been sipping the sweets of unspoken admiration. She saw it in the eyes,
in the deference, as if he was almost afraid of her, in the sudden flush
when she turned her eyes to him. It was a new kind of worship.
She went over to the Uphams. Polly had been having her sampler framed.
The acorn border was very pretty in its greens and browns. Then a stiff
little tree grew up both sides, about like those that came in the Noah's
Ark later on. And between these two trees was worked in cross-stitch:
          "Mary Upham is my name,
              America is my nation;
           Salem is my dwelling place,
              And Christ is my salvation."
"Isn't the frame nice?" she asked. "I made father two shirts and he gave
me the frame and the glass. Peter Daly made it. And the frame is oiled
and polished until the grain shows--well, almost like watered silk.
Gitty Sprague has a beautiful pelisse of gray watered silk. And now I
have one thing for my house. I'm beginning to lay by."
"Your house!" Cynthia ejaculated in surprise.
"Why, yes--when I'm married. You have such lots of things, you'll never
have to save up."
Cynthia was wondering what she could give away. Not anything that was
her father's or her mother's.
"I'll paint you a picture. You do so much better needlework than I that
I should be ashamed to offer you any."
"And the girls will give me some, I know. I'd fifty times rather have
the picture. What a nice young fellow that cousin is! I'm glad his name
isn't Leverett. There's such a host of them. But I don't like Anthony so
well."
"That was father's name. It's quite a family name. It always sounds good
to me."
"And is he going to Harvard?"
"Yes; even if he can't get in right away."
"That's nice, too. It's quite the style for young men to go to college.
Some of them put on a sight of airs, though. He doesn't look like that
kind."
"He isn't," she returned warmly. "He is going to work his way through."
"Oh! Hasn't he any father?"
"Yes; but his father will not do anything for him. I think it is real
grand of him."
Polly nodded, but she lost interest in the young man.
Bentley walked home with Cynthia. It was afternoon, so he did not really
need to.
"I suppose that cousin isn't going to live with you?" he asked
presently.
"Oh, no; he will have to live in Boston."
"And come up here for Sundays?"
"Why, I don't know. That would be nice. I think I am growing fond of
company."
"Well, I can come over;" half jocosely.
"Oh, I meant other people;" innocently.
"Then you don't care for my coming?"
"Yes, I do. Oh, do you remember that winter I was half sick and how you
used to come over and read Latin? And I used to say it to myself after
you."
That delighted him. He didn't feel so cross about the young fellow, but
he half hoped he wouldn't pass, and have to go back to New Hampshire for
another year.
They sat on the stoop and chatted until the old stage stopped and
Chilian alighted.
"Oh!" the young girl cried, "where did you leave Anthony?"
"With Cousin Giles. The examinations will begin to-morrow."
It was near supper-time and Ben rose to go. Sometimes they asked him to
stay to supper, but to-night they did not.
Then an event happened that took Cynthia's entire interest for a while.
This was the return of Captain Corwin. He came up the walk one
day--quite a grizzled old fellow it seemed, with the sailor's rolling
gait--and looked at her so sharply that she had a mind to run away.
"Oh, Captain Anthony's little girl," he cried. "You have forgotten me.
And it ain't been so long either."
She thought a moment and turned from red to white. Then she stretched
out both hands and cried, her eyes and voice full of tears:
"Oh, you couldn't bring him back!"
"No, little Missy. He'd shipped for the last time before I'd reached
there and gone to a better haven. He was the best friend I ever had. But
he knew it long afore, and that was why he wanted you safe with
friends."
"I know now." She brushed the tears from her eyes.
"And I hope you've been happy."
"I waited and waited at first. Sometimes I wished I was a bird. Oh,
wouldn't we have a lovely time if we could fly? And one time in the
winter I was quite ill--it was so cold and I did get so tired of
waiting. Then Cousin Chilian told me he had gone to mother and I knew
how glad she would be to see him. I had some nice times. Cousin Chilian
loved me very much. So did Cousin Eunice. I think Cousin Elizabeth would
if she had lived longer, but she went away, too. Oh, I've done so many
things--studied books, and taken journeys, and made friends, and painted
pictures, flowers, and such. And I've tried to paint the sea, but I
can't make it move and seem like a real sea."
"Oh, Missy, how smart you must be!"
"There are so many things I don't know," she laughed. "And now tell me
about yourself and why you did not come back."
"We had a pretty fair journey all along first. But as we were nearing
Torres Strait an awful storm took us, and we were driven ashore almost a
wreck and lost two of our men. After a while we got patched up and set
sail again, but I was afraid we would never reach harbor. Howsomever we
did, in a pretty bad condition. Poor Flying Star seemed on its last
legs and 'twasn't sea legs either. Then I went up to Hong Kong and
cruised around, buying stuff and selling it elsewhere. The Flying Star
was patched up again, but she wasn't thought safe for a long journey.
But there was plenty of work near at hand. Of course, I knew all about
your father, and that the word must have reached you, but I hated
mortally to come back and face you. But after a while the hankerin' for
old Salem grew upon me. And there was the Aurora wantin' a captain,
for the man who brought her out died of a fever. So says I, 'I'm your
man, and I've been over often enough to know the ropes, the islands, and
p'ints of danger and safe sailing.' So here I be once more. But jiminy
Peter! I should hardly 'a' knowed little old Salem. Why, she looks as if
she was going to outsail all creation!"
"Oh, we're getting very grand. New streets, and splendid new houses, and
stores, and churches. Why, Boston isn't very much finer."
"Don't b'lieve Boston harbor can show tonnage with her! And where's
first mate?"
"I don't know, but he will be in soon. Oh, there's Rachel. Rachel, come
here to an old friend."
The captain shook hands heartily. "Why, you don't seem to have changed a
mite, only to grow younger and plump as a partridge."
