before the wedding, to which he and Oliver had been invited. As he was
thinking of taking up his case, he went to his brother, saying that he
wished to decline; but Oliver had been getting back his courage day by
day, and declared that it was more important than ever now that he
should hold his ground, and face his enemies--for Alice's sake, if not
for his own. And so Montague went to the dinner, and saw deeper yet
into the history of the stolen millions.
It was a very beautiful affair, in the beginning. There was a large
private dining-room, elaborately decorated, with a string orchestra
concealed in a bower of plants. But there were cocktails even on the
side-board at the doorway; and by the time the guests had got to the
coffee, every one was hilariously drunk. After each toast they would
hurl their glasses over their shoulders. The purpose of a "bachelor
dinner," it appeared, was a farewell to the old days and the boon
companions; so there were sentimental and comic songs which had been
composed for the occasion, and were received with whirlwinds of
laughter.
By listening closely and reading between the lines, one might get quite
a history of the young host's adventurous career. There was a house up
on the West Side; and there was a yacht, with, orgies in every part of
the world. There was the summer night in Newport harbour, when some one
had hit upon the dazzling scheme of freezing twenty-dollar gold pieces
in tiny blocks of ice, to be dropped down the girls' backs! And there
was a banquet in a studio in New York, when a huge pie had been brought
on, from which a half-nude girl had emerged, with a flock of canary
birds about her! Then there was a damsel who had been wont to dance
upon the tops of supper tables, clad in diaphanous costume; and who had
got drunk after a theatre-party, and set out to smash up a Broadway
restaurant. There was a cousin from Chicago, a wild lad, who made a
speciality of this diversion, and whose mistresses were bathed in
champagne.--Apparently there were numberless places in the city where
such orgies were carried on continually; there were private clubs, and
artists' "studios"--there were several allusions to a high tower, which
Montague did not comprehend. Many such matters, however, were explained
to him by an elderly gentleman who sat on his right, and who seemed to
stay sober, no matter how much he drank. Incidentally he gravely
advised Montague to meet one of the young host's mistresses, who was a
"stunning" girl, and was in the market.
Toward morning the festivities changed to a series of wrestling-bouts;
the young men stripped off their clothing and tore the table to pieces,
and piled it out of the way in a corner, smashing most of the crockery
in the process. Between the matches, champagne would be opened by
knocking off the heads of the bottles; and this went on until four
o'clock in the morning, when many of the guests were lying in heaps
upon the floor.
Montague rode home in a cab with the elderly gentleman who had sat next
to him; and on the way he asked if such affairs as this were common.
And his companion, who was a "steel man" from the West, replied by
telling him of some which he had witnessed at home. At Siegfried
Harvey's theatre-party Montague had seen a popular actress in a musical
comedy, which was then the most successful play running in New York.
The house was sold out weeks ahead, and after the matinee you might
observe the street in front of the stage-entrance blocked by people
waiting to see the woman come out. She was lithe and supple, like a
panther, and wore close-fitting gowns to reveal her form. It seemed
that her play must have been built with one purpose in mind, to see how
much lewdness could be put upon a stage without interference by the
police.--And now his companion told him how this woman had been invited
to sing at a banquet given by the magnates of a mighty Trust, and had
gone after midnight to the most exclusive club in the town, and sung
her popular ditty, "Won't you come and play with me?" The merry
magnates had taken the invitation literally--with the result that the
actress had escaped from the room with half her clothing torn off her.
And a little while later an official of this trust had wished to get
rid of his wife and marry a chorus-girl; and when public clamour had
forced the directors to ask him to resign, he had replied by
threatening to tell about this banquet!
The next day--or rather, to be precise, that same morning--Montague and
Alice attended the gorgeous wedding. It was declared by the newspapers
to be the most "important" social event of the week; and it took half a
dozen policemen to hold back the crowds which filled the street. The
ceremony took place at St. Cecilia's, with the stately bishop
officiating, in his purple and scarlet robes. Inside the doors were all
the elect, exquisitely groomed and gowned, and such a medley of
delicious perfumes as not all the vales in Arcady could equal. The
groom had been polished and scrubbed, and looked very handsome, though
somewhat pale; and Montague could not but smile as he observed the best
man, looking so very solemn, and recollected the drunken wrestler of a
few hours before, staggering about in a pale blue undershirt ripped up
the back.
The Montagues knew by this time whom they were to avoid. They were
graciously taken under the wing of Mrs. Eldridge Devon--whose real
estate was not affected by insurance suits; and the next morning they
had the satisfaction of seeing their names in the list of those
present--and even a couple of lines about Alice's costume. (Alice was
always referred to as "Miss Montague"; it was very pleasant to be the
"Miss Montague," and to think of all the other would-be Miss Montagues
in the city, who were thereby haughtily rebuked!) In the "yellow"
papers there were also accounts of the trousseau of the bride, and of
the wonderful gifts which she had received, and of the long honeymoon
which she was to spend in the Mediterranean upon her husband's yacht.
Montague found himself wondering if the ghosts of its former occupants
would not haunt her, and whether she would have been as happy, had she
known as much as he knew.
He found food for a good deal of thought in the memory of this banquet.
Among the things which he had gathered from the songs was a hint that
Oliver, also, had some secrets, which he had not seen fit to tell his
brother. The keeping of young girls was apparently one of the
established customs of the "little brothers of the rich"--and, for that
matter, of many of the big brothers, also. A little later Montague had
a curious glimpse into the life of this "half-world." He had occasion
one evening to call up a certain financier whom he had come to know
quite well-a man of family and a member of the church. There were some
important papers to be signed and sent off by a steamer; and the great
man's secretary said that he would try to find him. A minute or two
later he called up Montague and asked him if he would be good enough to
go to an address uptown. It was a house not far from Riverside Drive;
and Montague went there and found his acquaintance, with several other
prominent men of affairs whom he knew, conversing in a drawing-room
with one of the most charming ladies he had ever met. She was exquisite
to look at, and one of the few people in New York whom he had found
worth listening to. He spent such an enjoyable evening, that when he
was leaving, he remarked to the lady that he would like his cousin
Alice to meet her; and then he noticed that she flushed slightly, and
was embarrassed. Later on he learned to his dismay that the charming
and beautiful lady did not go into Society.
Nor was this at all rare; on the contrary, if one took the trouble to
make inquiries, he would find that such establishments were everywhere
taken for granted. Montague talked about it with Major Venable; and out
of his gossip storehouse the old gentleman drew forth a string of
anecdotes that made one's hair stand on end. There was one all-powerful
magnate, who had a passion for the wife of a great physician; and he
had given a million dollars or so to build a hospital, and had provided
that it should be the finest in the world, and that this physician
should go abroad for three years to study the institutions of Europe!
No conventions counted with this old man--if he saw a woman whom he
wanted, he would ask for her; and women in Society felt that it was an
honour to be his mistress. Not long after this a man who voiced the
anguish of a mighty nation was turned out of several hotels in New York
because he was not married according to the laws of South Dakota; but
this other man would take a woman to any hotel in the city, and no one
would dare oppose him!
And there was another, a great traction king, who kept mistresses in
Chicago and Paris and London, as well as in New York; he had one just
around the corner from his palatial home, and had an underground
passage leading to it. And the Major told with glee how he had shown
this to a friend, and the latter had remarked, "I'm too stout to get
through there."--"I know it," replied the other, "else I shouldn't have
told you!"
And so it went. One of the richest men in New York was a sexual
degenerate, with half a dozen women on his hands all the time; he would
send them cheques, and they would use these to blackmail him. This
man's young wife had been shut up in a closet for twenty-four hours by
her mother to compel her to marry him.--And then there was the charming
tale of how he had gone away upon a mission of state, and had written
long messages full of tender protestations, and given them to a
newspaper correspondent to cable home "to his wife." The correspondent
had thought it such a touching example of conjugal devotion that he
told about it at a dinner-party when he came back; and he was struck by
the sudden silence that fell. "The messages had been sent to a code
address!" chuckled the Major. "And every one at the table knew who had
got them!"
A few days after this, Montague received a telephone message from
Siegfried Harvey, who said that he wanted to see him about a matter of
business. He asked him to lunch at the Noonday Club; and Montague
went--though not without a qualm. For it was in the Fidelity Building,
the enemy's bailiwick: a magnificent structure with halls of white
marble, and a lavish display of bronze. It occurred to Montague that
somewhere in this structure people were at work preparing an answer to
his charges; he wondered what they were saying.
The two had lunch, talking meanwhile about the coming events in
Society, and about politics and wars; and when the coffee was served
and they were alone in the room, Harvey settled his big frame back in
his chair, and began:--
"In the first place," he said, "I must explain that I've something to
say that is devilish hard to get into. I'm so much afraid of your
jumping to a wrong conclusion in the middle of it--I'd like you to
agree to listen for a minute or two before you think at all."
"All right," said Montague, with a smile. "Fire away."
And at once the other became grave. "You've taken a case against this
company," he said. "And Ollie has talked enough to me to make me
understand that you've done a plucky thing, and that you must be
everlastingly sick of hearing from cowardly people who want you to drop
it. I'd be very sorry to be classed with them, for even a moment; and
you must understand at the outset that I haven't a particle of interest
in the company, and that it wouldn't matter to me if I had. I don't try
to use my friends in business, and I don't let money count with me in
my social life. I made up my mind to take the risk of speaking to you
about this case, simply because I happen to know one or two things
about it that I thought you didn't know. And if that's so, you are at a
great disadvantage; but in any case, please understand that I have no
motive but friendship, and so if I am butting in, excuse me."
When Siegfried Harvey talked, he looked straight at one with his clear
blue eyes, and there was no doubting his honesty. "I am very much
obliged to you," said Montague. "Pray tell me what you have to say."
"All right," said the other. "It can be done very quickly. You have
taken a case which involves a great many sacrifices upon your part. And
I wondered if it had ever occurred to you to ask whether you might not
be taken advantage of?"
"How do you mean?" asked Montague.
"Do you know the people who are behind you?" inquired the other. "Do
you know them well enough to be sure what are their motives in the
case?"
Montague hesitated, and thought. "No," he said, "I couldn't say that I
do."
"Then it's just as I thought," replied Harvey. "I've been watching
you--you are an honest man, and you're putting yourself to no end of
trouble from the best of motives. And unless I'm mistaken, you're being
used by men who are not honest, and whom you wouldn't work with if you
knew their purposes."
"What purposes could they have?"
"There are several possibilities. In the first place, it might be a
'strike' suit--somebody who is hoping to be bought off for a big price.
That is what nearly every one thinks is the case. But I don't; I think
it's more likely some one within the company who is trying to put the
administration in a hole."
"Who could that be?" exclaimed Montague, amazed.
"I don't know that. I'm not familiar enough with the situation in the
Fidelity--it's changing all the time. I simply know that there are
factions struggling for the control of it, and hating each other
furiously, and ready to do anything in the world to cripple each other.
You know that their forty millions of surplus gives an enormous power;
I'd rather be able to swing forty millions in the Street than to have
ten millions in my own right. And so the giants are fighting for the
control of those companies; and you can't tell who's in and who's
out--you can never know the real meaning of anything that happens in
the struggle. All that you can be sure of is that the game is crooked
from end to end, and that nothing that happens in it is what it
pretends to be."
Montague listened, half dazed, and feeling as if the ground he stood on
were caving beneath his feet.
"What do you know about those who brought you this case?" asked his
companion, suddenly.
"Not much," he said weakly.
Harvey hesitated a moment. "Understand me, please," he said. "I've no
wish to pry into your affairs, and if you don't care to say any more,
I'll understand it perfectly. But I've heard it said that the man who
started the thing was Ellis."
Montague, in his turn, hesitated; then he said, "That is
correct--between you and me."
"Very good," said Harvey, "and that is what made me suspicious. Do you
know anything about Ellis?"
"I didn't," said the other. "I've heard a little since."
"I can fancy so," said Harvey. "And I can tell you that Ellis is mixed
up in life-insurance matters in all sorts of dubious ways. It seems to
me that you have reason to be most careful where you follow him."
Montague sat with his hands clenched and his brows knitted. His
friend's talk had been like a flash of lightning; it revealed huge
menacing forms in the darkness about him. All the structure of his
hopes seemed to be tottering; his case, that he had worked so hard
over--his fifty thousand dollars that he had been so proud of! Could it
be that he had been tricked, and had made a fool of himself?
"How in the world am I to know?" he cried.
"That is more than I can tell," said his friend. "And for that matter,
I'm not sure that you could do anything now. All that I could do was to
warn you what sort of ground you were treading on, so that you could
watch out for yourself in future."
Montague thanked him heartily for that service; and then he went back
to his office, and spent the rest of the day pondering the matter.
What he had heard had made a vast change in things. Before it
everything had seemed simple; and now nothing was clear. He was
overwhelmed with a sense of the utter futility of his efforts; he was
trying to build a house upon quicksands. There was nowhere a solid spot
upon which he could set his foot. There was nowhere any truth--there
were only contending powers who used the phrases of truth for their own
purposes! And now he saw himself as the world saw him,--a party to a
piece of trickery,--a knave like all the rest. He felt that he had been
tripped up at the first step in his career.
The conclusion of the whole matter was that he took an afternoon train
for Albany; and the next morning he talked the matter out with the
Judge. Montague had realized the need of going slowly, for, after all,
he had no definite ground for suspicion; and so, very tactfully and
cautiously he explained, that it had come to his ears that many people
believed there were interested parties behind the suit of Mr. Hasbrook;
and that this had made him uncomfortable, as he knew nothing whatever
about his client. He had come to ask the Judge's advice in the matter.
No one could have taken the thing more graciously than did the great
man; he was all kindness and tact. In the first place, he said, he had
warned him in advance that enemies would attack him and slander him,
and that all kinds of subtle means would be used to influence him. And
he must understand that these rumours were part of such a campaign; it
made no difference how good a friend had brought them to him--how could
he know who had brought them to that friend?
The Judge ventured to hope that nothing that anyone might say could
influence him to believe that he, the Judge, would have advised him to
do anything improper.
"No," said Montague, "but can you assure me that there are no
interested parties behind Mr. Hasbrook?"
"Interested parties?" asked the other.
"I mean people connected with the Fidelity or other insurance
companies."
"Why, no," said the Judge; "I certainly couldn't assure you of that."
Montague looked surprised. "You mean you don't know?"
"I mean," was the answer, "that I wouldn't feel at liberty to tell,
even if I did know."
And Montague stared at him; he had not been prepared for this frankness.
"It never occurred to me," the other continued, "that that was a matter
which could make any difference to you."
"Why--" began Montague.
"Pray understand me, Mr. Montague," said the Judge. "It seemed to me
that this was obviously a just case, and it seemed so to you. And the
only other matter that I thought you had a right to be assured of was
that it was seriously meant. Of that I felt assured. It did not seem to
me of any importance that there might be interested individuals behind
Mr. Hasbrook. Let us suppose, for instance, that there were some
parties who had been offended by the administration of the Fidelity,
and were anxious to punish it. Could a lawyer be justified in refusing
to take a just case, simply because he knew of such private motives?
Or, let us assume an extreme case--a factional fight within the
company, as you say has been suggested to you. Well, that would be a
case of thieves falling out; and is there any reason why the public
should not reap the advantage of such a situation? The men inside the
company are the ones who would know first what is going on; and if you
saw a chance to use such an advantage in a just fight--would you not do
it?"
So the Judge went on, gracious and plausible--and so subtly and
exquisitely corrupting! Underneath his smoothly flowing sentences
Montague could feel the presence of one fundamental thought; it was
unuttered and even unhinted, but it pervaded the Judge's discourse as a
mood pervades a melody. The young lawyer had got a big fee, and he had
a nice easy case; and as a man of the world, he could not really wish
to pry into it too closely. He had heard gossip, and felt that his
reputation required him to be disturbed; but he had come, simply to be
smoothed down the back and made at ease, and enabled to keep his fee
without losing his good opinion of himself.
Montague quit, because he concluded that it was not worth while to try
to make himself understood. After all, he was in the case now, and
there was nothing to be gained by a breach. Two things he felt that he
had made certain by the interview--first, that his client was a
"dummy," and that it was really a case of thieves falling out; and
second, that he had no guarantee that he might not be left in the lurch
at any moment--except the touching confidence of the Judge in some
parties unknown.
CHAPTER XIX
Montague came home with his mind made up that there was nothing he
could do except to be more careful next time. For this mistake he would
have to pay the price.
He had still to learn what the full price was. The day after his return
there came a caller--Mr. John C. Burton, read his card. He proved to be
a canvassing agent for the company which published the scandal-sheet of
Society. They were preparing a de luxe account of the prominent
families of New York; a very sumptuous affair, with a highly exclusive
set of subscribers, at the rate of fifteen hundred dollars per set.
Would Mr. Montague by any chance care to have his family included?
And Mr. Montague explained politely that he was a comparative stranger
in New York, and would not belong properly in such a volume. But the
agent was not satisfied with this. There might be reasons for his
subscribing, even so; there might be special cases; Mr. Montague, as a
stranger, might not realize the important nature of the offer; after he
had consulted his friends, he might change his mind--and so on. As
Montague listened to this series of broad hints, and took in the
meaning of them, the colour mounted, to his cheeks--until at last he
rose abruptly and bid the man good afternoon.
But then as he sat alone, his anger died away, and there was left only
discomfort and uneasiness. And three or four days later he bought
another issue of the paper, and sure enough, there was a new paragraph!
He stood on the street-corner reading it. The social war was raging
hotly, it said; and added that Mrs. de Graffenried was threatening to
take up the cause of the strangers. Then it went on to picture a
certain exquisite young man of fashion who was rushing about among his
friends to apologize for his brother's indiscretions. Also, it said,
there was a brilliant social queen, wife of a great banker, who had
taken up the cudgels.--And then came three sentences more, which made
the blood leap like flame into Montague's cheeks:
"There have not been lacking comments upon her suspicious ardour. It
has been noticed that since the advent of the romantic-looking
Southerner, this restless lady's interest in the Babists and the trance
mediums has waned; and now Society is watching for the denouement of a
most interesting situation."
To Montague these words came like a blow in the face. He went on down
the street, half dazed. It seemed to him the blackest shame that New
York had yet shown him. He clenched his fists as he walked, whispering
to himself, "The scoundrels!"
He realized instantly that he was helpless. Down home one would have
thrashed the editor of such a paper; but here he was in the wolves' own
country, and he could do nothing. He went back to his office, and sat
down at the desk.
"My dear Mrs. Winnie," he wrote. "I have just read the enclosed
paragraph, and I cannot tell you how profoundly pained I am that your
kindness to us should have made you the victim of such an outrage. I am
quite helpless in the matter, except to enable you to avoid any further
annoyance. Please believe me when I say that we shall all of us
understand perfectly if you think that we had best not meet again at
present; and that this will make no difference whatever in our
feelings."
This letter Montague sent by a messenger; and then he went home.
Perhaps ten minutes after he arrived, the telephone bell rang--and
there was Mrs. Winnie.
"Your note has come," she said. "Have you an engagement this evening?"
"No," he answered.
"Well," she said, "will you come to dinner?"
"Mrs. Winnie--" he protested.
"Please come," she said. "Please!"
"I hate to have you--" he began.
"I wish you to come!" she said, a third time.
So he answered, "Very well."
He went; and when he entered the house, the butler led him to the
elevator, saying, "Mrs. Duval says will you please come upstairs, sir."
And there Mrs. Winnie met him, with flushed cheeks and eager
countenance.
She was even lovelier than usual, in a soft cream-coloured gown, and a
crimson rose in her bosom. "I'm all alone to-night," she said, "so
we'll dine in my apartments. We'd be lost in that big room downstairs."
She led him into her drawing-room, where great armfuls of new roses
scattered their perfume. There was a table set for two, and two big
chairs before the fire which blazed in the hearth. Montague noticed
that her hand trembled a little, as she motioned him to one of them; he
could read her excitement in her whole aspect. She was flinging down
the gauntlet to her enemies!
"Let us eat first and talk afterward," she said, hurriedly. "We'll be
happy for a while, anyway."
And she went on to be happy, in her nervous and eager way. She talked
about the new opera which was to be given, and about Mrs. de
Graffenried's new entertainment, and about Mrs. Ridgley-Clieveden's
ball; also about the hospital for crippled children which she wanted to
build, and about Mrs. Vivie Patton's rumoured divorce. And, meantime,
the sphinx-like attendants moved here and there, and the dinner came
and went. They took their coffee in the big chairs by the fire; and the
table was swept clear, and the servants vanished, closing the doors
behind them.
Then Montague set his cup aside, and sat gazing sombrely into the fire.
And Mrs. Winnie watched him. There was a long silence.
Suddenly he heard her voice. "Do you find it so easy to give up our
friendship?" she asked.
"I didn't think about it's being easy or hard," he answered. "I simply
thought of protecting you."
"And do you think that my friends are nothing to me?" she demanded.
"Have I so very many as that?" And she clenched her hands with a sudden
passionate gesture. "Do you think that I will let those wretches
frighten me into doing what they want? I'll not give in to them--not
for anything that Lelia can do!"
A look of perplexity crossed Montague's face. "Lelia?" he asked.
"Mrs. Robbie Walling!" she cried. "Don't you suppose that she is
responsible for that paragraph?"
Montague started.
"That's the way they fight their battles!" cried Mrs. Winnie. "They pay
money to those scoundrels to be protected. And then they send nasty
gossip about people they wish to injure."
"You don't mean that!" exclaimed the man.
"Of course I do," cried she. "I know that it's true! I know that Robbie
Walling paid fifteen thousand dollars for some trumpery volumes that
they got out! And how do you suppose the paper gets its gossip?"
"I didn't know," said Montague. "But I never dreamed--"
"Why," exclaimed Mrs. Winnie, "their mail is full of blue and gold
monogram stationery! I've known guests to sit down and write gossip
about their hostesses in their own homes. Oh, you've no idea of
people's vileness!"
"I had some idea," said Montague, after a pause.--"That was why I
wished to protect you."
"I don't wish to be protected!" she cried, vehemently. "I'll not give
them the satisfaction. They wish to make me give you up, and I'll not
do it, for anything they can say!"
Montague sat with knitted brows, gazing into the fire. "When I read
that paragraph," he said slowly. "I could not bear to think of the
unhappiness it might cause you. I thought of how much it might disturb
your husband--"
"My husband!" echoed Mrs. Winnie.
There was a hard tone in her voice, as she went on. "He will fix it up
with them," she said,--"that's his way. There will be nothing more
published, you can feel sure of that."
Montague sat in silence. That was not the reply he had expected, and it
rather disconcerted him.
"If that were all--" he said, with hesitation. "But I could not know. I
thought that the paragraph might disturb him for another reason--that
it might be a cause of unhappiness between you and him--"
There was a pause. "You don't understand," said Mrs. Winnie, at last.
Without turning his head he could see her hands, as they lay upon her
knees. She was moving them nervously. "You don't understand," she
repeated.
When she began to' speak again, it was in a low, trembling voice. "I
must tell you," she said; "I have felt sure that you did not know."
There was another pause. She hesitated, and her hands trembled; then
suddenly she hurried on.--"I wanted you to know. I do not love my
husband. I am not bound to him. He has nothing to say in my affairs."
Montague sat rigid, turned to stone. He was half dazed by the words. He
could feel Mrs. Winnie's gaze fixed upon him; and he could feel the hot
flush that spread over her throat and cheeks.
"It--it was not fair for you not to know," she whispered. And her voice
died away, and there was again a silence. Montague was dumb.
"Why don't you say something?" she panted, at last; and he caught the
note of anguish in her voice. Then he turned and stared at her, and saw
her tightly clenched hands, and the quivering of her lips.
He was shocked quite beyond speech. And he saw her bosom heaving
quickly, and saw the tears start into her eyes. Suddenly she sank down,
and covered her face with her hands and broke into frantic sobbing.
"Mrs. Winnie!" he cried; and started to his feet.
Her outburst continued. He saw that she was shuddering violently. "Then
you don't love me!" she wailed.
He stood trembling and utterly bewildered. "I'm so sorry!" he
whispered. "Oh, Mrs. Winnie--I had no idea--"
"I know it! I know it!" she cried. "It's my fault! I was a fool! I knew
it all the time. But I hoped--I thought you might, if you knew--"
And then again her tears choked her; she was convulsed with pain and
grief.
Montague stood watching her, helpless with distress. She caught hold of
the arm of the chair, convulsively, and he put his hand upon hers.
"Mrs. Winnie--" he began.
But she jerked her hand away and hid it. "No, no!" she cried, in
terror. "Don't touch me!"
And suddenly she looked up at him, stretching out her arms. "Don't you
understand that I love you?" she exclaimed. "You despise me for it, I
know--but I can't help it. I will tell you, even so! It's the only
satisfaction I can have. I have always loved you! And I thought--I
thought it was only that you didn't understand. I was ready to brave
all the world--I didn't care who knew it, or what anybody said. I
thought we could be happy--I thought I could be free at last. Oh,
you've no idea how unhappy I am--and how lonely--and how I longed to
escape! And I believed that you--that you might--"
And then the tears gushed into Mrs. Winnie's eyes again, and her voice
became the voice of a little child.
"Don't you think that you might come to love me?" she wailed.
Her voice shook Montague, so that he trembled to the depths of him. But
his face only became the more grave.
"You despise me because I told you!" she exclaimed.
"No, no, Mrs. Winnie," he said. "I could not possibly do that--"
"Then--then why--" she whispered.--"Would it be so hard to love me?"
"It would be very easy," he said, "but I dare not let myself."
She looked at him piteously. "You are so cold--so merciless!" she cried.
He answered nothing, and she sat trembling. "Have you ever loved a
woman?" she asked.
There was a long pause. He sat in the chair again. "Listen, Mrs.
Winnie"--he began at last.
"Don't call me that!" she exclaimed. "Call me Evelyn--please."
"Very well," he said--"Evelyn. I did not intend to make you unhappy--if
I had had any idea, I should never have seen you again. I will tell
you--what I have never told anybody before. Then you will understand."
He sat for a few moments, in a sombre reverie.
"Once," he said, "when I was young, I loved a woman--a quadroon girl.
That was in New Orleans; it is a custom we have there. They have a
world of their own, and we take care of them, and of the children; and
every one knows about it. I was very young, only about eighteen; and
she was even younger. But I found out then what women are, and what
love means to them. I saw how they could suffer. And then she died in
childbirth--the child died, too."
Montague's voice was very low; and Mrs. Winnie sat with her hands
clasped, and her eyes riveted upon his face. "I saw her die," he said.
"And that was all. I have never forgotten it. I made up my mind then
that I had done wrong; and that never again while I lived would I offer
my love to a woman, unless I could devote all my life to her. So you
see, I am afraid of love. I do not wish to suffer so much, or to make
others suffer. And when anyone speaks to me as you did, it brings it
all back to me--it makes me shrink up and wither."
He paused, and the other caught her breath.
"Understand me," she said, her voice trembling. "I would not ask any
pledges of you. I would pay whatever price there was to pay--I am not
afraid to suffer."
"I do not wish you to suffer," he said. "I do not wish to take
advantage of any woman."
"But I have nothing in the world that I value!" she cried. "I would go
away--I would give up everything, to be with a man like you. I have no
ties--no duties--"
He interrupted her. "You have your husband--" he said.
And she cried out in sudden fury--"My husband!"
"Has no one ever told you about my husband?" she asked, after a pause.
"No one," he said.
"Well, ask them!" she exclaimed. "Meantime, take my word for it--I owe
nothing to my husband."
Montague sat staring into the fire. "But consider my own case," he
said. "I have duties--my mother and my cousin--"
"Oh, don't say any more!" cried the woman, with a break in her voice.
"Say that you don't love me--that is all there is to say! And you will
never respect me again! I have been a fool--I have ruined everything! I
have flung away your friendship, that I might have kept!"
"No," he said.
But she rushed on, vehemently--"At least, I have been honest--give me
credit for that! That is how all my troubles come--I say what is in my
mind, and I pay the price for my blunders. It is not as if I were cold
and calculating--so don't despise me altogether."
"I couldn't despise you," said Montague. "I am simply pained, because I
have made you unhappy. And I did not mean to."
Mrs. Winnie sat staring ahead of her in a sombre reverie. "Don't think
any more about it," she said, bitterly. "I will get over it. I am not
worth troubling about. Don't you suppose I know how you feel about this
world that I live in? And I'm part of it--I beat my wings, and try to
get out, but I can't. I'm in it, and I'll stay in till I die; I might
as well give up. I thought that I could steal a little joy--you have no
idea how hungry I am for a little joy! You have no idea how lonely I
am! And how empty my life is! You talk about your fear of making me
unhappy; it's a grim jest--but I'll give you permission, if you can!
I'll ask nothing--no promises, no sacrifices! I'll take all the risks,
and pay all the penalties!"
She smiled through her tears, a sardonic smile. He was watching her,
and she turned again, and their eyes met; again he saw the blood mount
from her throat to her cheeks. At the same time came the old stirring
of the wild beasts within him. He knew that the less time he spent in
sympathizing with Mrs. Winnie, the better for both of them.
He had started to rise, and words of farewell were on his lips; when
suddenly there came a knock upon the door.
Mrs. Winnie sprang to her feet. "Who is that?" she cried.
And the door opened, and Mr. Duval entered.
"Good evening," he said pleasantly, and came toward her.
Mrs. Winnie flushed angrily, and stared at him. "Why do you come here
unannounced?" she cried.
"I apologize," he said--"but I found this in my mail--"
And Montague, in the act of rising to greet him, saw that he had the
offensive clipping in his hand. Then he saw Duval give a start, and
realized that the man had not been aware of his presence in the room.
Duval gazed from Montague to his wife, and noticed for the first time
her tears, and her agitation. "I beg pardon," he said. "I am evidently
trespassing."
"You most certainly are," responded Mrs. Winnie.
He made a move to withdraw; but before he could take a step, she had
brushed past him and left the room, slamming the door behind her.
And Duval stared after her, and then he stared at Montague, and
laughed. "Well! well! well!" he said.
Then, checking his amusement, he added, "Good evening, sir."
"Good evening," said Montague.
He was trembling slightly, and Duval noticed it; he smiled genially.
"This is the sort of material out of which scenes are made," said he.
"But I beg you not to be embarrassed--we won't have any scenes."
Montague could think of nothing to say to that.
"I owe Evelyn an apology," the other continued. "It was entirely an
accident--this clipping, you see. I do not intrude, as a rule. You may
make yourself at home in future."
Montague flushed scarlet at the words.
"Mr. Duval," he said, "I have to assure you that you are mistaken--"
The other stared at him. "Oh, come, come!" he said, laughing. "Let us
talk as men of the world."
"I say that you are mistaken," said Montague again.
The other shrugged his shoulders. "Very well," he said genially. "As
you please. I simply wish to make matters clear to you, that's all. I
wish you joy with Evelyn. I say nothing about her--you love her.
Suffice it that I've had her, and I'm tired of her; the field is yours.
But keep her out of mischief, and don't let her make a fool of herself
in public, if you can help it. And don't let her spend too much
money--she costs me a million a year already.--Good evening, Mr.
Montague."
And he went out. Montague, who stood like a statue, could hear him
chuckling all the way down the hall.
At last Montague himself started to leave. But he heard Mrs. Winnie
coming back, and he waited for her. She came in and shut the door, and
turned toward him.
"What did he say?" she asked.
"He--was very pleasant," said Montague.
And she smiled grimly. "I went out on purpose," she said. "I wanted you
to see him--to see what sort of a man he is, and how much 'duty' I owe
him! You saw, I guess."
"Yes, I saw," said he.
Then again he started to go. But she took him by the arm. "Come and
talk to me," she said. "Please!"
And she led him back to the fire. "Listen," she said. "He will not come
here again. He is going away to-night--I thought he had gone already.
And he does not return for a month or two. There will be no one to
disturb us again."
She came close to him and gazed up into his face. She had wiped her
tears away, and her happy look had come back to her; she was lovelier
than ever.
"I took you by surprise," she said, smiling. "You didn't know what to
make of it. And I was ashamed--I thought you would hate me. But I'm not
going to be unhappy any more--I don't care at all. I'm glad that I
spoke!"
And Mrs. Winnie put up her hands and took him by the lapels of his
coat. "I know that you love me," she said; "I saw it in your eyes just
now, before he came in: It is simply that you won't let yourself go.
You have so many doubts and so many fears. But you will see that I am
right; you will learn to love me. You won't be able to help it--I shall
be so kind and good! Only don't go away--"
Mrs. Winnie was so close to him that her breath touched his cheek.
"Promise me, dear," she whispered--"promise me that you won't stop
seeing me--that you will learn to love me. I can't do without you!"
Montague was trembling in every nerve; he felt like a man caught in a
net. Mrs. Winnie had had everything she ever wanted in her life; and
now she wanted him! It was impossible for her to face any other thought.
"Listen," he began gently.
But she saw the look of resistance in his eyes, and she cried "No
no--don't! I cannot do without you! Think! I love you! What more can I
say to you? I cannot believe that you don't care for me--you HAVE been
fond of me--I have seen it in your face. Yet you're afraid of me--why?
Look at me--am I not beautiful to look at! And is a woman's love such a
little thing--can you fling it away and trample upon it so easily? Why
do you wish to go? Don't you understand--no one knows we are here--no
one cares! You can come here whenever you wish--this is my place--mine!
And no one will think anything about it. They all do it. There is
nothing to be afraid of!"
She put her arms about him, and clung to him so that he could feel the
beating of her heart upon his bosom. "Oh, don't leave me here alone
to-night!" she cried.
To Montague it was like the ringing of an alarm-bell deep within his
soul. "I must go," he said.
She flung back her head and stared at him, and he saw the terror and
anguish in her eyes. "No, no!" she cried, "don't say that to me! I
can't bear it--oh, see what I have done! Look at me! Have mercy on me!"
"Mrs. Winnie," he said, "you must have mercy on ME!"
But he only felt her clasp him more tightly. He took her by the wrists,
and with quiet force he broke her hold upon him; her hands fell to her
sides, and she stared at him, aghast.
"I must go," he said, again.
And he started toward the door. She followed him dumbly with her eyes.
"Good-bye," he said. He knew that there was no use of any more words;
his sympathy had been like oil upon flames. He saw her move, and as he
opened the door, she flung herself down in a chair and burst into
frantic weeping. He shut the door softly and went away.
He found his way down the stairs, and got his hat and coat, and went
out, unseen by anyone. He walked down the Avenue-and there suddenly was
the giant bulk of St. Cecilia's lifting itself into the sky. He stopped
and looked at it--it seemed a great tumultuous surge of emotion. And
for the first time in his life it seemed to him that he understood why
men had put together that towering heap of stone!
Then he went on home.
He found Alice dressing for a ball, and Oliver waiting for her. He went
to his room, and took off his coat; and Oliver came up to him, and with
a sudden gesture reached over to his shoulder, and held up a trophy.
He drew it out carefully, and measured the length of it, smiling
mischievously in the meanwhile. Then he held it up to the light, to see
the colour of it.
"A black one!" he cried. "Coal black!" And he looked at his brother,
with a merry twinkle in his eyes. "Oh, Allan!" he chuckled.
Montague said nothing.
CHAPTER XX
It was about a week from the beginning of Lent, when there would be a
lull in the city's gaieties, and Society would shift the scene of its
activities to the country clubs, and to California and Hot Springs and
Palm Beach. Mrs. Caroline Smythe invited Alice to join her in an
expedition to the last-named place; but Montague interposed, because he
saw that Alice had been made pale and nervous by three months of
night-and-day festivities. Also, a trip to Florida would necessitate
ten or fifteen thousand dollars' worth of new clothes; and these would
not do for the summer, it appeared--they would be faded and passe by
that time.
So Alice settled back to rest; but she was too popular to be let
alone--a few days later came another invitation, this time from General
Prentice and his family. They were planning a railroad trip--to be gone
for a month; they would have a private train, and twenty five people in
the party, and would take in California and Mexico--"swinging round the
circle," as it was called. Alice was wild to go, and Montague gave his
consent. Afterward he learned to his dismay that Charlie Carter was one
of those invited, and he would have liked to have Alice withdraw; but
she did not wish to, and he could not make up his mind to insist.
These train trips were the very latest diversion of the well-to-do; a
year ago no one had heard of them, and now fifty parties were leaving
New York every month. You might see a dozen of such hotel-trains at
once at Palm Beach; there were some people who lived on board all the
time, having special tracks built for them in pleasant locations
wherever they stopped. One man had built a huge automobile railroad
car, shaped like a ram, and having accommodation for sixty people. The
Prentice train had four cars, one of them a "library car," finished in
St. Iago mahogany, and provided with a pipe-organ. Also there were
bath-rooms and a barber-shop, and a baggage car with two autos on board
for exploring purposes.
Since the episode of Mrs. Winnie, Oliver had apparently concluded that
his brother was one of the initiated. Not long afterward he permitted
him to a glimpse into that side of his life which had been hinted at in
the songs at the bachelors' dinner.
Oliver had planned to take Betty Wyman to the theatre; but Betty's
grandfather had come home from the West unexpectedly, and so Oliver
came round and took his brother instead.
"I was going to play a joke on her," he said. "We'll go to see one of
my old flames."
It was a translation of a French farce, in which the marital
infidelities of two young couples were the occasion of many mishaps.
One of the characters was a waiting-maid, who was in love with a
handsome young soldier, and was pursued by the husband of one of the
couples. It was a minor part, but the young Jewish girl who played it
had so many pretty graces and such a merry laugh that she made it quite
conspicuous. When the act was over, Oliver asked him whose acting he
liked best, and he named her.
"Come and be introduced to her," Oliver said.
He opened a door near their box. "How do you do, Mr. Wilson," he said,
nodding to a man in evening dress, who stood near by. Then he turned
toward the dressing-rooms, and went down a corridor, and knocked upon
one of the doors. A voice called, "Come in," and he opened the door;
and there was a tiny room, with odds and ends of clothing scattered
about, and the girl, clad in corsets and underskirt, sitting before a
mirror. "Hello, Rosalie," said he.
And she dropped her powder-puff, and sprang up with a cry--"Ollie!" 'In
a moment more she had her arms about his neck.
"Oh, you wretched man," she cried. "Why don't you come to see me any
more? Didn't you get my letters?"
"I got some," said he. "But I've been busy. This is my brother, Mr.
Allan Montague."
The other nodded to Montague, and said, "How do you do?"--but without
letting go of Oliver. "Why don't you come to see me?" she exclaimed.
"There, there, now!" said Oliver, laughing good-naturedly. "I brought
my brother along so that you'd have to behave yourself."
"I don't care about your brother!" exclaimed the girl, without even
giving him another glance. Then she held Oliver at arm's length, and
gazed into his face. "How can you be so cruel to me?" she asked.
"I told you I was busy," said he, cheerfully. "And I gave you fair
warning, didn't I? How's Toodles?"
"Oh, Toodles is in raptures," said Rosalie. "She's got a new fellow."
And then, her manner changing to one of merriment, she added: "Oh,
Ollie! He gave her a diamond brooch! And she looks like a
countess--she's hoping for a chance to wear it in a part!"
"You've seen Toodles," said Oliver, to his brother "She's in 'The
Kaliph of Kamskatka.'".
"They're going on the road next week," said Rosalie. "And then I'll be
all alone." She added, in a pleading voice: "Do, Ollie, be a good boy
and take us out to-night. Think how long it's been since I've seen you!
Why, I've been so good I don't know myself in the looking-glass.
Please, Ollie!"
"All right," said he, "maybe I will."
"I'm not going to let you get away from me," she cried. "I'll come
right over the footlights after you!"
"You'd better get dressed," said Oliver. "You'll be late."
He pushed aside a tray with some glasses on it, and seated himself upon
a trunk; and Montague stood in a corner and watched Rosalie, while she
powdered and painted herself, and put on an airy summer dress, and
poured out a flood of gossip about "Toodles" and "Flossie" and "Grace"
and some others. A few minutes later came a stentorian voice in the
hallway: "Second act!" There were more embraces, and then Ollie brushed
the powder from his coat, and went away laughing.
Montague stood for a few moments in the wings, watching the
scene-shifters putting the final touches to the new set, and the
various characters taking their positions. Then they went out to their
seats. "Isn't she a jewel?" asked Oliver.
"She's very pretty," the other admitted.
"She came right out of the slums," said Oliver--"over on Rivington
Street. That don't happen very often."
"How did you come to know her?" asked his brother.
"Oh, I picked her out. She was in a chorus, then. I got her first
speaking part."
"Did you?" said the other, in surprise. "How did you do that?"
"Oh, a little money," was the reply. "Money will do most anything. And
I was in love with her--that's how I got her."
Montague said nothing, but sat in thought.
"We'll take her out to supper and make her happy," added Oliver, as the
curtain started up. "She's lonesome, I guess. You see, I promised Betty
I'd reform."
All through that scene and the next one Rosalie acted for them; she was
so full of verve and merriment that there was quite a stir in the
audience, and she got several rounds of applause. Then, when the play
was over, she extricated herself from the arms of the handsome young
soldier, and fled to her dressing-room, and when Oliver and Montague
arrived, she was half ready for the street.
They went up Broadway, and from a group of people coming out of another
stage-entrance a young girl came to join them--an airy little creature
with the face of a doll-baby, and a big hat with a purple feather on
top. This was "Toodles"--otherwise known as Helen Gwynne; and she took
Montague's arm, and they fell in behind Oliver and his companion.
Montague wondered what one said to a chorus-girl on the way to supper.
Afterward his brother told him that Toodles had been the wife of a
real-estate agent in a little town in Oklahoma, and had run away from
respectability and boredom with a travelling theatrical company. Now
she was tripping her part in the musical comedy which Montague had seen
at Mrs. Lane's; and incidentally swearing devotion to a handsome young
"wine-agent." She confided to Montague that she hoped the latter might
see her that evening--he needed to be made jealous.
"The Great White Way" was the name which people had given to this part
of Broadway; and at the head of it stood a huge hotel with flaming
lights, and gorgeous marble and bronze, and famous paintings upon the
walls and ceilings inside. At this hour every one of its many
dining-rooms was thronged with supper-parties, and the place rang with
laughter and the rattle of dishes, and the strains of several
orchestras which toiled heroically in the midst of the uproar. Here
they found a table, and while Oliver was ordering frozen poached eggs
and quails in aspic, Montague sat and gazed about him at the revelry,
and listened to the prattle of the little ex-sempstress from Rivington
Street.
His brother had "got her," he said, by buying a speaking part in a play
for her; and Montague recalled the orgies of which he had heard at the
bachelors' dinner, and divined that here he was at the source of the
stream from which they were fed. At the table next to them was a young
Hebrew, whom Toodles pointed out as the son and heir of a great
clothing manufacturer. He was "keeping" several girls, said she; and
the queenly creature who was his vis-a-vis was one of the chorus in
"The Maids of Mandalay." And a little way farther down the room was a
boy with the face of an angel and the air of a prince of the blood--he
had inherited a million and run away from school, and was making a name
for himself in the Tenderloin. The pretty little girl all in green who
was with him was Violet Pane, who was the artist's model in a new play
that had made a hit. She had had a full-page picture of herself in the
Sunday supplement of the "sporting paper" which was read here--so
Rosalie remarked.
"Why don't you ever do that for me?" she added, to Oliver.
"Perhaps I will," said he, with a laugh. "What does it cost?"
And when he learned that the honour could be purchased for only fifteen
hundred dollars, he said, "I'll do it, if you'll be good." And from
that time on the last trace of worriment vanished from the face and the
conversation of Rosalie.
As the champagne cocktails disappeared, she and Oliver became
confidential. Then Montague turned to Toodles, to learn more about how
the "second generation" was preying upon the women of the stage.
"A chorus-girl got from ten to twenty dollars a week," said Toodles;
and that was hardly enough to pay for her clothes. Her work was very
uncertain--she would spend weeks at rehearsal, and then if the play
failed, she would get nothing. It was a dog's life; and the keys of
freedom and opportunity were in the keeping of rich men, who haunted
the theatres and laid siege to the girls. They would send in notes to
them, or fling bouquets to them, with cards, or perhaps money, hidden
in them. There were millionaire artists and bohemians who kept a
standing order for seats in the front rows at opening performances;
they had accounts with florists and liverymen and confectioners, and
gave carte blanche to scores of girls who lent themselves to their
purposes. Sometimes they were in league with the managers, and a girl
who held back would find her chances imperilled; sometimes these men
would even finance shows to give a chance to some favourite.
Afterward Toodles turned to listen to Oliver and his companion; and
Montague sat back and gazed about the room. Next to him was a long
table with a dozen, people at it; and he watched the buckets of
champagne and the endless succession of fantastic-looking dishes of
food, and the revellers, with their flushed faces and feverish eyes and
loud laughter. Above all the tumult was the voice of the orchestra,
calling, calling, like the storm wind upon the mountains; the music was
wild and chaotic, and produced an indescribable sense of pain and
confusion. When one realized that this same thing was going on in
thousands of places in this district it seemed that here was a flood of
dissipation that out-rivalled even that of Society.
It was said that the hotels of New York, placed end to end, would reach
all the way to London; and they took care of a couple of hundred
thousand people a day--a horde which had come from all over the world
in search of pleasure and excitement. There were sight-seers and
"country customers" from forty-five states; ranchers from Texas, and
lumber kings from Maine, and mining men from Nevada. At home they had
reputations, and perhaps families to consider; but once plunged into
the whirlpool of the Tenderloin, they were hidden from all the world.
They came with their pockets full of money; and hotels and restaurants,
gambling-places and pool-rooms and brothels--all were lying in wait for
them! So eager had the competition become that there was a tailoring
establishment and a bank that were never closed the year round, except
on Sunday.
