     truthfully, over my own name, that your voice startled me. It would
     have startled me under ordinary circumstances. In New York one does
     not sing in the streets. It is considered bad form by the police.
"Thanks! I must remember that."
     I was startled, then, because my thoughts were far away. I was
     dreaming of Italy, where I was born, though there is no more
     Italian blood in my veins than there is in yours.
The ruddy head became erect and the blue eyes searched the glowing seams
in the logs. Here was a riddle.
"What made him think that, I wonder?"
     I therefore write this in a language familiar to us both, certain
     you could not sing Lecocq's songs in Italian if you did not speak
     and understand it thoroughly. Signora or signorina, whichever it
     may be, have we no mutual friends? Are you not known to some one
     who knows me? Some one who will speak for me, my character, my
     habits? Modesty forbids that I myself should dwell upon my virtues.
     I could refer you to my bankers, but money does not recommend the
     good character of a man. It merely recommends his thrift, or more
     generally that of his father.
"That will pass as wit," said the lady. "But it is rather a dull letter,
so far. But, then, he is wandering in the dark."
     You say you sang because at that moment you were happy. This
     implies that you are not always so. Surely, with a voice like yours
     one can not possibly be unhappy. If only I might meet you! Will you
     not do me that honor? I realize that this is all irregular, out of
     fashion, obsolete. But something tells me that neither of us is
     adjusted properly to prosaic environments. Isn't there just a
     little pure, healthy romance waiting to be given life? Your voice
     haunts me; out of every silence it comes to me--"She is so
     innocent, so youthful!"
     John Hillard.
The letter fluttered into her lap. She leaned on her elbows. It was not
a bad letter; and she rather liked the boyish tone of it. Nothing vulgar
peered out from between the lines. Did he really love music? He must,
for it was not every young man who could pick out the melody of an old,
forgotten opera. She shivered, but the room was warm. Had fate or chance
some ulterior purpose behind this episode? Rather than tempt fate she
decided not to answer this letter; aside from her passive superstition,
it would be neither wise nor useful. She desired to meet no strangers;
to be left to herself was all she wished. Her voice, it was all she had
that afforded her comfort and pleasure.
Romance! The word came back to her. With an unmusical laugh she stood
up, shaking the letter to the floor. Romance! She was no longer a girl;
she was a woman of five and twenty; and what should a woman know of
romance? Ah, there had been a time when all the world was romance,
romance; when the night breeze had whispered it under her
casement-window, when the lattice-climbing roses had breathed it, when
the moon and the stars had spelled it. Romance! She hated the word not
less than she hated the Italian language, the Italian people, the
country itself. She spurned the letter with her foot and fed the
newspaper to the fire. She would let Bettina answer the letter.
She went down-stairs to the piano and played with strong feeling.
Presently she began to sing a haunting melancholy song by Abt. From Abt
she turned to Flotow; from Offenbach to Rossini; from Gounod to Verdi.
The voice was now sad or gay, now tender or wild. She was mistress of
every tone, every shade, every expression.
The door opened gradually. The little maid's face was moved to rapture
over these exquisite sounds.
Crash! It was over.
"Bettina? Bettina, are you listening?"
"I am always listening." Bettina squeezed into the room. "I had not the
heart to interrupt. It is beautiful, beautiful! To sing like that!"
Then, with a burst of confidence: "There will be kings and dukes at your
feet!"
"Enough!"
"Pardon, signora, I forgot. But listen; I bring a message. A boy came to
say that the rehearsal will be at four this afternoon. It is now after
twelve."
"So late? I did not know. We must be off to lunch."
"And the letter up-stairs on the floor?"
"Some day, Bettina, you will enter the Forbidden Chamber, and I shall
have to play Bluebeard. This time, however, I do not mind. Leave it
there or burn it," indifferently.
Bettina knew her mistress. She thought best to leave the letter where it
lay, forgotten for the time being.
CHAPTER IV
BLINDFOLDED
For two days the club steward only nodded when Hillard came in; he had
no letters to present.
"I am thirty-three years old," Hillard mused, as he sought the
reading-room. "Down-town I am looked upon as a man of affairs, a
business man, with the care of half a dozen fortunes on my hands. Now,
what's the matter with me? I begin to tremble when I look that sober old
steward in the face. If he had handed me a letter to-night, I should
have had to lean against the wall for support. This will never do at
all. I have not seen her face, I do not know her name; for all I know,
she may be this Leddy Lightfinger.... No, that would be impossible.
Leddy Lightfinger would have made an appointment. What possesses me to
dwell in this realm of fancy, which is less tangible than a cloud of
smoke? Have I reached my dotage by the way of the seven-league boots? Am
I simply bored with the monotony of routine, and am I groping blindly
for a new sensation?" He smoked thoughtfully. "Or, am I romantic? To
create romance out of nothing; I used to do that when I was a boy. But
I'm a boy no longer. Or,  am  I a boy, thirty-three years old?... She
does not answer my letter. Sensible woman. In her place I shouldn't
answer it. But in my place I want her to. Two weeks ago I was haunting
the curio-shops for a Roman cameo two thousand years old; to-night I
might take it as a gift. I have ceased to be interested in something
that has always interested me. Something is wrong; what is it? She sent
for my letter. That indicates that she read it. Well, well!" reaching
for the  London Illustrated News ; "let's see what their Majesties have
been doing the past fortnight."
The King of England was preparing to descend to the Riviera; the King of
Spain was killing pigeons; the Kaiser was calling for more battleships;
the Czar of all the Russias was still able to sit for his photograph;
the King of Italy was giving a fête; and Leopold of Belgium was winning
at Monte Carlo. Among the lesser nobles the American duchesses were
creating a favorable impression in spite of their husbands.
"What a fine sensation it must be," Hillard murmured, "to be able at any
time to plunge one's noble white hand into a sack of almost
inexhaustible American dollars!"
He dropped the paper. The same old stories, warmed over. There was
really nothing new in the world. If Giovanni returned to Italy in the
spring, he was of a mind to go with him. He looked up and was glad to
see Merrihew in the doorway.
"Been looking for you, Jack. Want your company to-night. Kitty Killigrew
is giving a little bite to eat after the performance, and has asked me
to bring you along. Will you come?"
"With pleasure, Dan. Are you dining with any one to-night?" Hillard was
lonesome.
"Yes. A little bridge till eleven."
"You're hopeless. I can see you in limbo, matching coffin-plates with
Charon. I'll hunt you up at eleven."
"Heard the talk?"
"About what?"
"Why, some one in the club has been using the agony column. The J.H's
are being guyed unmercifully, and you'll come in for it presently. It's
a case of wine on the man who did it."
Hillard felt of his collar and drew down his cuffs. "Probably some
joke," he ventured tentatively.
"If it isn't, the man who would stoop to such tommyrot and tack the name
of his club to it must be an ass."
"No doubt about that. Odd that this is the first time I have heard about
it." But silently Hillard was swearing at his folly. There was one crumb
of comfort: the incident would be forgotten in a few days.
"I may depend upon you to-night, then?" said Merrihew.
"I shall be pleased to meet Miss Killigrew," which was a white one.
Hillard would have paid court to a laundress rather than offend
Merrihew.
And promptly at eleven he went up to the card-room and dragged Merrihew
away. Merrihew gave up his chair reluctantly. He was winning. He would
have been just as reluctant, however, had he been losing. The amateur
gambler never wants to stop.
On the way to the Killigrew apartment, Merrihew's moods varied. At one
moment he was on the heights, at the next in the depths. He simply could
not live without Kitty. Perhaps if this trip abroad turned out badly she
might change her mind. Seven thousand  could  be made to muster. Twice
Hillard came very near making his friend a confidant of his own affair;
but he realized that, while Merrihew was to be trusted in all things, it
was not yet time.
He found a pleasing and diverting company. There was Mère Killigrew, a
quaint little old lady who deplored her daughter's occupation but
admitted that without her success, Heaven only knew how they would have
got along. There was the genial Thomas O'Mally, a low-comedian of
genuine ability, whom Hillard knew casually; Smith, a light-comedian;
and Worth, a moderately successful barytone to whom Hillard took one of
those instant and unaccountable dislikes. These three and Kitty were
going abroad. And there were several members of  The Modern Maid 
company, which went on tour the following Monday.
Kitty fancied Hillard from the start; and he on his side found her well
educated, witty and unaffected. She was even prettier than her
photograph. Merrihew's face beamed upon them both, in a kind of
benediction. He had known all along that once Jack saw Kitty, he would
become a good ally in fighting down her objections.
"Think of singing in Italy!" cried Kitty. "Isn't it just wonderful?"
"And has Merrihew told you to get a return ticket before you sail?" with
half a jest.
"Don't you think it will be successful?" a shade of disappointment.
"There will be thousands of lonesome Americans over there. Out of
patriotism, if for nothing else, they ought to come and see us."
"They certainly ought to. But I'm an old killjoy."
"No, no; go on and tell me all your doubts. You have been over there so
many times."
"Well, supposing your tourists are tired, after having walked all day
through the churches and galleries? They may want to go to bed early.
But you never can tell till you try. You may become the rage on the
continent. Yet, you go into the enemy's country. It isn't the same as
going to London, among tolerant cousins. In Italy and in Germany there
is always so much red tape, blundering, confusing red tape, custom
duties, excessive charges. But your manager must know what he is doing."
"He has everything in black and white, I believe. But your advice is
sensible."
"Do you know anything about Italy or Germany?"
"Only what I learned in my geographies," laughing. "Rome, Florence,
Genoa, Venice, Nice, Milan, Strasburg, Cologne, and on to Berlin! It is
like a fairy story come true."
"Who is your prima donna?" he asked.
"Ah!" Kitty's face became eager with excitement. "Now you have put your
finger on the mystery that is bothering us all. Not one of us has seen
her or knows her name. She has not rehearsed with us and will not till
we reach Naples, where we rest a week. When we speak of her, the manager
smiles and says nothing; and as none of us has seen the backer, Mr.
Worth thinks that she herself is the prima donna and backer in one. We
think that she is some rich young woman who wishes to exploit her voice.
There's a lot of them in the world. I wish I knew her. I am dying of
curiosity. The manager is not a man to fool away his time. She doubtless
can act and sing. Little has been said about the venture in the papers,
and I'm glad. We may prove a perfect fizzle, and the less said the
better. As we can't walk back, I must learn to swim.... Lunch is ready,
every one!"
The mummers and the outsiders flocked into the small dining-room. There
was plenty to eat--beer, soda, whisky, and two magnums of champagne,
Merrihew's contribution to the feast. Hillard listened with increasing
amusement to the shop-talk. Such and such a person (absent) never could
act; such and such a composer (absent) was always giving the high note
to the wrong singer; such and such a manager (absent) never staged the
opera right. It was after one when they returned to the sitting-room,
where the piano stood. The wine was now opened and toasts were drunk.
O'Mally told inimitable stories. There was something exceedingly droll
in that expressive Irish face of his and the way he lingered over his
wine.
"There is nothing so good as a glass of champagne," he observed, "unless
it is another."
Worth did not drink, but Hillard did not like his handsome face any the
more for this virtue. He sang remarkably well, however, and with a
willingness Hillard had not believed he possessed. He wondered vaguely
why he disliked the man. He had never met him before, and knew nothing
at all about him. It was one of those inexplicable things which can not
be answered. Otherwise Hillard enjoyed himself vastly. He found these
people full of hope, light-hearted, generous, intelligent, and generally
improvident.
"Mr. Merrihew has been telling me all about you," said Kitty.
"You mean, of course, my good qualities," replied Hillard.
"To hear him talk, one would think that you possessed nothing else. But
I am sure that you have glaring faults, such as a man might pass over
and a woman go round."
"I believed that Merrihew had a serious fault till to-night," he said;
and he made no attempt to disguise the admiration in his eyes.
She looked at him quickly and colored. It was a good sign.
"Has the foolish boy been telling you that I refused to marry him? I
like him very much," she added gravely; "but I shall never marry any man
till I have ceased to love the stage. Just now I can not wisely love
anything else."
"I understand," he said.
"I am not a whit less extravagant than he is. How could the two of us
live on an income which he himself admits that he can not live within?
But that isn't it; a million would not make any difference. I am like a
young colt; I have no desire to be harnessed yet. A month after I am
gone he will forget all about me; or, at least, he will only recollect
me with a sigh of relief. There will be others; only I hope they will
treat him as frankly as I have done."
"Merrihew is the most loyal man I know," Hillard declared, bound to
defend his comrade against this shrewd insight to his character.
"Of course he is loyal! And he is always in earnest--for the moment."
She laughed. "But if he marries any one while I am gone, I shall hate
him."
And then they both laughed.
"I'll wager another magnum," cried Merrihew from across the room, "that
I'm the subject under discussion."
"Another magnum!" murmured O'Mally rapturously.
"No more magnums," said Kitty resolutely.
"On abstract principles, then!" insisted Merrihew.
"You win," Kitty replied merrily. "We have been saying only nice things
about you."
It was outrageously late, nearly four, when the revelers took leave of
their hostess. Merrihew was happy with that evanescent happiness which
goes hand in glove with late suppers and magnums. In the morning he
would have a headache.
"Isn't she a little wonder, Jack? Do you blame me?"
"Not at all, Dan. It might be a good thing for you to marry a sensible
little woman like that. But she won't have you."
"No, she won't." Merrihew reached for his watch. "Four A.M. Wonder if we
can't find another bottle somewhere."
"You are going home, my boy."
"All right, if you say so,"--good-humoredly. "Say, what do you think of
that man Worth?"
"Very good voice; but he's too handsome. Being a plain duffer myself, I
don't take kindly to handsome men."
"Oh, go on! You're as fine a looking chap as there's in New York. But
this man Worth has the looks of a lady-killer. He's been eying Kitty,
but it doesn't go. Hang it, I can't see why she won't marry me now.
She's got to, some time or other."
"You must have patience."
"Or more money. Can't O'Mally tell a good story, though?"
"Good company, too; but I should hate to turn him loose in my
wine-cellars. I imagine that he's not a connoisseur, and will praise
anything that's good to drink, unless it's water."
Merrihew roared.
"Well, here's your station, Dan. You go home like a good boy. Shall I
see you to-morrow?"
"Eight-thirty in the park. Gallop off headache. Nothing like a horse for
a headache. Good night."
Merrihew climbed the elevated stairs and vanished. Hillard arrived home
tired and sleepy; but as he saw a letter on the stand in the hall, his
drowsiness passed quickly. There was no other blue envelope like it. She
now had his house address; she was interested enough to look it up. She
did not follow his lead and write in Italian; she wrote in
English--crisp English, too. Again there was neither beginning nor
ending. But this was a letter; there was something here of the woman,
something to read and read again.
     I had told the maid to burn your letter. But she left it on the
     floor where I had thrown it, and I came across it this morning. It
     looked rather pathetic. So I am writing you against my better
     judgment. Yes, I know your name; I find that I am well acquainted
     with people you know. I am a woman who often surrenders to the
     impulse of the moment; I may or may not answer any future letter
     from you. You write very good Italian; but it will surprise you to
     learn that I detest all things that are Italian. Once I loved them
     well. Why should you wish to know me? Our ways are as divergent as
     the two poles. Happy because I sing? There are some things over
     which we can sing or laugh, but of which we can not speak without
     crying. Happy or unhappy, what can this matter to you? To you I
     shall always remain the Lady in the Fog. Are you rich, young,
     talented? I care not in the least. Perhaps it amuses me to add to
     your confusion. Find me? I think not. Seek me? Do so; I permit you
     to. And would you know me if you found me? Misguided energy!
Hillard put the letter away, extinguished the lights, and passed up to
his room. She defied him to find her? This was a direct challenge. He
would accept it. This time he would use no personal to tell her that a
letter awaited her. She should make the inquiries herself. And from the
mail-clerk he would obtain a description of the elusive Madame Angot.
Next morning he rode in the park with Merrihew. Again he saw the veiled
lady on the Sandford black. Out of normal curiosity he telephoned the
stables and made inquiries. The reply was short. No one at the stables
knew the lady, but she rode the horse on proper authority.
That night he wrote:
     I shall keep on writing till you cease to reply. Let me be frank
     with you. I am bored; so are you. The pleasure you derive in
     keeping up this mystery engages you. You bid me to find you. I
     accept the challenge. You must understand at once that it is the
     mystery that interests me. It is the unknown that attracts me. I am
     mentally painting you in all sorts of radiant colors. You defy me
     to find you. There is nothing so reliable as the unexpected,
     nothing so desperately uncertain as a thing assured. I warn you
     that I shall lay all manner of traps, waylay your messengers, bribe
     them. I shall find out where you live. The rest will be simple.
She replied:
     I have no desire to alleviate your confessed boredom. Your
     persistence would be praiseworthy if well directed. Waters wear away
     stone, the wind crumbles the marble, but a woman is not moved till
     she wishes to be. I never thought that I should dabble in an
     intrigue of this sort, and I am surprised at the amusement it
     affords me. I really owe you some gratitude. The few I have met who
     know you tell me that you are a "nice young man."
He rebelled at the adjective. Every man has some portion of self-love.
So his next effort was a passionate denial that he was nice. When should
he meet her? The postman brought him a letter which contained one
word-- Nimmer!  He sent her four pages, a frank and witty description of
himself and friends, his past and some of theirs.
On the day she received this letter a cablegram came to her from the far
Mediterranean. Whatever it contained had the effect to cause all
restraint to disappear from the tone of her letters. They became
charming; and more and more Hillard found himself loving a Voice. All
his watching, all his traps, came to no successful end. She was too
clever for him. He sought the mail-department of the great newspaper;
the clerk couldn't remember, there were so many calling for mail.
Letters passed to and fro daily now, but always she declared that it was
impossible for them to meet. To write a letter was one thing, to meet a
strange man in an unconventional manner was another. No, it was out of
the question to dine with him in a restaurant. It was equally out of the
question to cook a dinner where she lived, as she and her maid dined at
a small restaurant near-by. Would he not be content with the romance and
let the reality go? Finally he proposed to bring the dinner all cooked
from the club. Two days went by without a sign; then the blue letter
came.
     I surrender. The most fatal thing in life is curiosity. It has the
     power to lead us into all manner of trouble. And I have my share of
     curiosity. Remember, you never would have found me. I may dwell in
     a garret; I may be hideous; perhaps nothing remains to me but my
     voice. Whatever you have painted me in your imagination, I tell you
     that I shall prove directly the opposite. And now the terms. And if
     you do not follow them confidently and blindly, your dinner will
     grow cold in the carriage. Dinner will be at eight, February first.
     At seven a carriage will call for you. The messenger will blindfold
     you. He will then proceed to the club and take the dinner, and
     bring you here. Be warned! If you so much as lift the corner of the
     bandage, the romance will end then and there. It is necessary to
     enforce these conditions, but it is not necessary to explain why. I
     realize that I am doing something very foolish and unwise. But, as
     you say, I am a woman who has seen much of the world. Thus I have
     my worldly side. I shall use it as a buffer.
"Blindfolded!" Hillard scrubbed his chin. All these precautions! Who was
she? What was she? An ordinary young woman, full of mischief, or was she
what he hoped, a real mystery? He was well on the way to find out. Since
there was no escape, blindfolded he would go.
At half after six, on the night of the first of February, then, he began
to dress. It was some time since he had taken such particular care.
"The signore seems in high spirits to-night," observed Giovanni, as he
laid out the linen.
"Man, I'm happy and greatly excited. Do you recollect the lady who sang
under my window? I am going to meet her to-night. The mystery will be a
mystery no longer."
"Who is she?" asked Giovanni sharply. It was rarely he asked a question
with such directness.
But his master was too excited to note it. "On my word, I don't know who
she is, Giovanni. She has written such charming letters! She may be only
a singer; she may be a Russian princess in exile; she may be an
adventuress of the most formidable type; she may be an American girl.
One thing, she is not English. English women as I have found them lack
the essential spirit of adventure."
"Ah!" Giovanni stroked his lips doubtfully. "It is not like the signore
to plunge blindly into adventures like this."
"The very word, blindly. I go blindfolded,  amico . What do you think of
that?"
"Blindfolded?" Giovanni was horrified. "It is a trap!" he cried. "They
will assassinate you! No, you shall not go! In Rome, at the carnivals,
it is an old game. They will rob you."
"You are dreaming. This is America; things are not done that way here.
And nothing now can turn me aside." Hillard was all the while finishing
his toilet.
"I suppose not. But blindfolded!"
"Take the number of the cab as I get in. If anything should happen, give
the number to the police."
Giovanni, with a sharp movement of the hands, expressed his resignation
to the worst. He knew the futility of arguing with his master. But he
followed him down to the hall and tied on the bandage himself. He was
honest about it, too, for Hillard could see nothing. Then the
messenger-boy took him by the hand and led him to the carriage. As the
two were climbing in, Giovanni spoke rapidly in his native tongue.
"There is no number on the carriage!"
"Too late to bother now."
The carriage rolled off toward the club, where the dinner, hot and
smoking, was taken on.
"Joinin' th' Elks?" asked the boy, when they were well under way once
more.
"No, it's a séance. They are going to call up my fate round a table."
"Huh? Aw, go-wan! Dey don't call up no ghosts wit' French cider and hot
boids." The boy relapsed into silence.
Hillard tried to follow the turns of the carriage, but these were too
many; and so he resigned himself to become totally lost. By and by the
carriage stopped.
"Dis is where we alights, me loid!" the boy jeered. "An' no lookin',
mind."
Hillard found the carriage steps and landed safely. He stood for a
moment, listening. They were in a quiet part of the city; no elevated or
surface cars were near. He was assured that the location was exclusive.
Garrets are not to be found in quiet places.
"Look out fer th' steps," said the boy, again taking Hillard by the
hand.
"And you be careful of that basket."
"I ain't lettin' it drop any."
Winding steps, thought the blindfolded man. He could recollect none. It
seemed to him that they stood there five minutes before the door opened.
When it did, the boy passed in the basket and resolutely pushed Hillard
into the hall. The door closed gently, and the adventure was begun.
Whither would it lead him?
"Take off the bandage the signore may now," said a voice in broken
English.
"Thanks!" He tore the handkerchief from his eyes and blinked. The hall
was so dimly lighted that he could see nothing distinctly.
"The signore's coat and hat."
He passed over these articles, shook the wrinkles from his trousers,
smoothed his chin, and stood at attention. The maid eyed him with
abundant approval, then knocked timidly on the door leading to the
drawing-room. He was sure of one thing: this was some millionaire's
home. What if he should see in the drawing-room a party of his intimate
friends, ready to plague and jest? He shuddered. He never had
entertained such an appalling probability.
" Avanti! " called a soft voice from within.
Hillard gathered in his courage, opened the door and stepped inside. A
single lamp in a far corner drew his glance, which roved a moment later.
On a divan near this lamp sat a woman in black. Only a patch of white
throat could be seen, for her shoulders were not bare and her arms only
to the elbows. Her back was turned squarely. He could see nothing of her
face. But what a head! He caught his breath. It glowed like a
copper-beech in the sunshine. What was it? There was something,
something he could not see.
"Madame?" he faltered. He had had a gallant Italian phrase to turn for
her benefit. He spoke English instead, and not very firmly.
The woman turned. Hillard took a step backward and blundered against a
pedestal.
She was masked!
CHAPTER V
THE MASK
Masked! Only her mouth and chin were visible, and several little pieces
of court-plaster effectually disguised these. There  was  a mystery. He
to come blindfolded and she to wear a mask! Extraordinary! There was
something more than a jest: she really did not wish to be known, and the
reason lay far back of all this, beyond his grasp. He stood there
dumfounded. She rose. The movement was elegant.
"And this," she said ironically, "is the gentleman who leaned out of the
window?"
He brought all his faculties together, for he knew that he would need
them in this encounter. "Supposing I had fallen out of it? Well, it
could not have mattered. I should not have been more at your feet than I
am now." This was very good, considering how dry his tongue was.
"If you had fallen out? I had not thought of that. A modern Ulysses,
house-broken, and an itinerant siren! You had been wise to have stuffed
your ears that night."
"My mythology is rusty. And I much prefer Penelope. She interests me
vastly more than the ancient prize-fighter."
"But sit down, Mr. Hillard, sit down." The lady with the mask motioned
him to a chair directly under the light. She wished to study his face
while she talked.
Hillard reached the chair successfully enough, but he never could
recollect how. He sat down as a bashful man sits down in a crowded
ball-room, with his knees drawn in tightly and his feet at sympathetic
angles. He knew that she would have the best of him in this engagement.
All the bright things to say would come to him after he had gone home.
It was far easier to write letters. That mask! One might as well
converse with the Sphinx. His face was hers to study; her emotions would
be wholly her own.
Presently she laughed with malice.
"You are not comfortable in that chair."
"That is true; and yet it is soft and roomy. I am uneasy. Perhaps you
recall to my subconsciousness a period in my former existence on earth;
or, if you will, one of my ancestors."
"I fail to understand."
"Well, a Hillard two hundred years ago had his head cut off by an ax.
His executioner wore a mask."
"A mistake. Your ancestor should have been hanged."
"And I along with him, you would imply?"
"Are you not Irish? I have known Irishmen by the name of Hillard."
"They were in disguise. But I have a generous strain of Irish blood in
me. Otherwise I shouldn't have had the courage to follow up an adventure
like this."
"Thanks. The compliment is rather ambiguous."
"My compliments can not possibly be more ambiguous than your appearance.
Surely, there will be an hour for unmasking."
"It has already begun, Mr. Hillard."
"So I am the one who is to be unmasked? Well, I have only the mask
nature gave to me. I wish she had been more liberal. But I shall see
what can be done with it."
"Is there any mask quite so terrible, quite so deceptive, as this very
mask nature gives us? Can it not lie adroitly, break hearts, overthrow
empires? You can judge a character by this mask sometimes, but never the
working of the mind behind it." She resumed her seat on the divan.
"I wish I could read yours."
"And much good it would do you." She smiled, rather ruefully Hillard
thought.
He took note of her teeth, and felt a sudden tinge of regret. One may
disguise the face and hair, but the teeth are always the same. Two lower
teeth on the right side appeared to be gone; the others were firm and
glistening white. It was a pity, for a woman's teeth are as much her
glory as her hair.
"I am curious to learn what you brought for dinner."
He enumerated the delicacies.
"You have evidently studied your Lucullus," she said.
Silence. The ruddy light on her hair fascinated him.
"What is it?" she demanded.
"Your hair," with a simplicity which silenced her. "You have the most
beautiful hair I have ever seen."
"Thank you. And yet, for all you know, it may be a fine wig."
"If it is, I shall never be sure of anything again. Am I in prosaic New
York? Have you not, by some carpet-magic, transported me to old Europe?
If a dozen conspirators came in in cowls to render me the oath, I should
not be at all surprised."
"There is no magic; only a mask."
"And there is no way of seeing behind that?"
"None, absolutely none. I am told that you are a gentleman; so I am
confident that you will not stoop to use force."
"Only the force of eloquence, if ever I may lay claim to that again."
"You are beginning well. For I tell you, Mr. Hillard, I shall expect but
the most brilliant wit from you to-night. As for me, I shall only
interpolate occasionally. Now, begin."
"I am not used to dancing without the pole."
"You must learn. Dance!"
"Upon what--nothing? And how shall I know that my dancing pleases you?"
"I agree to tell you. I wear this mask to-night because I am taking a
surreptitious leaf out of my book of cares."
"Cares? Have you any?"
"If I were without cares it would not be necessary to seek diversions of
this equivocal character." She crossed her arms. The magic of old Venice
seemed at that moment to enfold her.
"You are, then, seeking a diversion?"
"Nothing more or less. Do not flatter yourself that there is anything
personal or romantic on my side. I am bored."
"I am wholly in your hands," he said; "and they are very beautiful
hands."
"Is there anything more beautiful than a cat's paw, when the claws are
hidden? Never judge a woman by her hands." Nevertheless she buried her
hands in the depths of a down-pillow. She had forgotten her rings. She
slipped them off and managed to hide them.
"I promise to remember. Your letters--" he began diffidently. Where the
deuce was his tongue? Was he to be tongue-tied all the evening before
this Columbine, who, with the aid of her mask, was covertly laughing at
his awkwardness?
"My letters? A woman often writes what she will not say, and says what
she will not write. Did you not ask me to disillusion you?"
"Yes, but softly, softly. I begin to believe one thing: you brought me
here to teach me a lesson. Gentlemen should never use the personal
column."
"Nor should ladies read it. I am not saving any mercy for myself!" with
laughter.
"Shall I begin with my past?"
"Something less horrifying, if you please!"
"I object to the word nice," he said, seeking a new channel, for he was
not steering very well in those he had so far selected.
"The word was employed negligently. Your friends used the word."
"I should have preferred milksop!" He was growing impatient. "Hadn't you
better try some new kind of torture?"
"This is only a skirmish; your real torture hasn't even begun yet. But
this will give you an appetite. I do not drink champagne, but the
chambertin will do nicely. Oh, I propose that you shall pay for this
dinner, Mr. Hillard; pay for the privilege of sharing it with me."
"Bring on the check. I should like to settle the bill at once, and have
it off my mind."
"You may take off your gloves," she countered. "I know that you must
feel uncomfortable with them on. To clasp one's own hands is a kind of
personal sympathy. Try it."
He drew them off, not ungracefully, and tucked them away. He spread his
thin brown muscular fingers a few times, then folded his arms.
"You look quite Napoleonic in that pose."
"If this were only Elba and not St. Helena! I should be coming back to
you some day."
"I shall credit that against the partridges."
This time her laughter was relaxed and joyful. And somehow he felt more
at ease. He was growing accustomed to the mask. He stretched his legs
and fingered his nether lip.
"Have you not somewhere an invisible cloak?"
"I had one that night, which nature lent me," she answered readily. "I
was so invisible to you that I heard the policeman call out your name. I
thank you for insisting that I was not a chorus-lady."
Here was a revelation which accounted for many things. "I haven't been
very fortunate so far in this adventure."
"That is rank ingratitude. I am of the opinion that fortune has highly
favored you."
"But the mask, the mask! If you heard the policeman call my name, you
must have heard him speak of one Leddy Lightfinger."
"I did indeed. And is it not possible that I am that very person?"
Hillard dropped his hand toward his watch. "Why do you hate Italy?"
She sat straight, and what little he could see of her mouth had
hardened.
"There will be no retrospection this evening, if you please," her voice
rather metallic.
The mystery lifted its head again. One does not hate a country without a
strong and vital reason. Was Giovanni partly right, after all? Was this
a kind of trap, a play to gain his interest? Was her singing under his
window purely accidental? She hated Italy. The State or the Church? More
likely the State. And what had the State done to her or she to the
State? A conspirator, in need of funds and men? If this was the case,
she was not going about her cause scientifically. Italy had no hold upon
anything of his save his love of beauty. Perhaps her reason for hating
Italy was individual and singular: as she would have hated any other
country, had her unhappiness originated there.
"Will you not sing?" he asked. This was an inspiration. Music might
assist in melting her new reserve.
"You recollect, then, that I possess a voice?"
"It is all I have to recollect. Tell me, whither is all this to lead?"
"To the door, and into the fog again."
"On my word, I'm half inclined to believe you to be an anarchist or a
Red, or something on that order."
"On account of my hair?" She laughed again. "Put yourself at ease. I am
neither Leddy Lightfinger nor a socialist. There are no dynamite bombs
in this house. I despise any organization which aims to destroy society.
Society is bad enough as it is; but think of trying to readjust it!"
"I give up the puzzle."
"That is better."
It is difficult to seek and hold a pair of eyes partly hidden behind a
mask. Several times he made the attempt, but his eyes were first to
lower.
Her severity, her irony and her apparent lack of warmth were mere
matters of calculation. Her plan was to inspire him with trepidation, to
keep him always at arm's length, for his own safety as well as hers. She
knew something of men. Even the best, if suddenly thrown into an affair
so strange as this, might commit an irreparable blunder; and this she
did not want Hillard to do. She was secretly pleased with his strong
face and shapely head. There was neither beard nor mustache to hide the
virtues or defects. The chin was square but not heavy, the mouth
humorous, kindly and firm, the nose bridged; and the brown eyes, sleepy
yet with latent fires, were really handsome. She knew all about him; she
was not afraid to be alone with him; nor was it really necessary to wear
a mask. But the romance in her heart, that she believed to be dead, was
not dead, only waiting to be rekindled. True, they were never to meet
again; it was all to begin to-night and end to-night. No man was likely
to forget a face met under such whimsical and extraordinary
circumstances; so he must not have hers to remember. She arose.
"I will sing!"
"That is more than I dared to hope." He made as though to rise.
"Sit down. I do not play by note; my memory is very good. While I am
singing I should much prefer you to remain where you are."
He obeyed without protest, and she went to the piano. Above the
instrument was a rare old Venetian mirror; in it he could see her face
fairly well. And where had he seen that mirror before?
"What shall it be?" she asked, and he forgot the mirror.
"The song you sang under my window."
"But that is for the male voice!"
"You sang it very well, nevertheless. I have a good memory, too." He
leaned forward, his arms crossed on his knees. Was there ever, in all
the world, such an Arabian night?
She sang, but without that buoyant note of the first night. One after
another he called out the popular airs of the old light operas. She had
them all on her tongue's end.
"Light opera appeals to you?" She had followed in the mirror his
slightest move. Was she disappointed?
Where had he seen that copy of Botticelli before? If only there was a
little more light.
"Pardon me," he said. "You asked--?"
She repeated her question, wondering what had drawn his attention.
"I like my grand opera after dinner. After dinner I shall want Verdi,
Berlioz, Gounod."
"But after dinner I may not care to sing." She spoke in German.
He was not expecting this tongue; besides, his German had never been a
finished product. For all that, he made a passable reply.
"You speak as many languages as a Swiss hotel-concierge."
"I wish I did. My mother had one idea in regard to my youth: I should
speak four languages and eventually become a great diplomat. As it
stands, I speak indifferent French and German, and am not in the
diplomatic service. My mother had one of the loveliest voices. It was a
joy to hear her speak, now Italian, now German, now French. She
understood that in these days one does not travel far with Greek and
Latin, though they come in handy when you strike old inscriptions. We
were great comrades. It was rare fun to go with her on an
antique-hunting expedition. They never fooled her nor got the better of
her in a bargain."
She liked the way he spoke of his mother.
"But you," he said; "you are not Italian."
She smiled.
"You are neither French, German nor English."
She still smiled, but to the smile she added a gentle shrug.
"You are American--like myself!" he hazarded.
Her fingers stirred over the keys again, and Grieg's  Papillon 
fluttered softly from flower to flower.
CHAPTER VI
INTO THE FOG AGAIN
He sat there, waiting and listening. From the light and airy butterfly,
the music changed to Farwell's  Norwegian Song . Hillard saw the lonely
sea, the lonely twilight, the lonely gull wheeling seaward, the lonely
little cottage on the cliffs, and the white moon in the far east. And
presently she spoke, still playing softly.
"My father was an American, my mother Italian. But I have lived in
Europe nearly all my life. There! You have more of my history than I
intended telling you." The music went dreamily.
"I knew it. Who but an American woman would have the courage to do what
you are doing to-night? Who but one of mine own countrywomen would trust
me so wholly and accept me so frankly for what I am, an American
gentleman?"
"Softly!" she warned. "You will dig a pit for your vanity."
"No. I am an American gentleman, and I am proud of it; though this
statement in your ears may have a school-boy ring."
"A nobility in this country? Impossible!"
"Not the kind you find in the  Almanach de Gotha . I speak of the
nobility of the heart and the mind." He was very much in earnest now.
"Indeed!" The music stopped, and she turned. She regarded his
earnestness with favor.
"I have traveled much; I have found noblemen everywhere, in all climes,
and also I have found beasts. Oh, I confess that my country is not
wholly free from the beast. But the beast here is a beast; shunned,
discredited, outcast. On the other side, if he be mentioned in the
 Almanach , they give him sashes and decorations. And they credit us
with being money-mad! It is not true. It is proved every day in the
foreign cables that our love for money is not one-tenth so strong as
that which our continental cousins evince."
"But if you are not money-mad, why these great fortunes?" dubiously.
"At a certain age a fortune in this country doubles itself without any
effort on the part of the owner. Few of us marry for money; and when we
do, we at least have the manhood to keep the letter of our bargain. We
do not beat the wife, nor impoverish her, nor thrust opera-singers into
the house she shares with us."
"And when you marry?"
"Well, it is generally the woman we love. Dowries are not considered.
There is no social law which forbids a dowerless girl to marry a
dowerless man," laughing. "But over there it is always and eternally a
business contract simply. You know that."
"Yes, a business contract," listlessly.
"And yet these foreigners call us a business nation! Well, we are,
outside our homes. But in the home we are husbands and fathers; most of
us live cleanly and honestly; we make our homes our havens and our
heavens. But of course there is always the beast. But they talk of
nobility on the other side. That is it; they talk, talk. Italy, France,
Germany! Why, I had rather be the son of an English farmer than a prince
on the continent. And I had rather be what I am than the greatest
nobleman in England."
"Go on, go on! I like it. What do you call it--jingo?"
"Call it what you will. Look at the men we produce. Three or four
hundred years ago Europe gave us great poets, great artists, great
soldiers, great churchmen, and great rascals. I admire a great rascal,
when he is a Napoleon, a Talleyrand, a Machiavelli; but a petty one! We
have no art, no music, no antiquity; but we have a race of gentlemen.
The old country is not breeding them nowadays."
"No, she simply prints new editions of the  Almanach . Continue; I am
becoming illumined."
"If I am boring you?"
"No. I have the greatest admiration for the American gentleman. My
father was one. But I have met Americans who are not so loyal as you
are, who see no good in their native land."
"I said we have beasts; I forgot to mention the cads. I am perfectly
frank. Italy is the most beautiful country in the world; France is
incomparable; Germany possesses a rugged beauty which I envy for my
country's sake. Every square foot of it is cultivated; nowhere the
squalidity one sees among the farm-houses of this country. Think of the
histories, the romance, the art, the music! America has little history;
and, saving the wildernesses, it is not beautiful; but it is generous
and bountiful and healthy mentally. Europe is a story-world, and I
should like nothing better than to read it to the end of my days."
"Signora, dinner is served!" The little maid stood between the sliding
doors which gave entrance to the dining-room.
Signora! thought Hillard. He certainly would look at her hands again.
"After you, Mr. Hillard," she said.
He bowed and passed on before her. But not till he had passed did he
understand the manoeuver. To follow her would have been nothing less
than the temptation to pluck at the strings of her mask. Would he have
touched it? He could not say, the temptation not having been his.
That dinner! Was he in New York? Was it not Bagdad, the bottle and the
genii? Had he ever, even in his most romantic dreams, expected to turn a
page so charming, so enchanting, or so dangerous to his peace of mind? A
game of magical hide-and-seek? To see, yet to be blindfolded! Here,
across the small table, within arm's length, was a woman such as, had he
been a painter, he must have painted; a poet, he must have celebrated in
silken verse. Three-and-thirty? No, he was only a lad this night. All
his illusions had come back again. At a word from this mysterious woman,
he would have started out on any fool's errand, to any fool's land.
And she? A whim, a fantastic, unaccountable whim; the whim of a woman
seeking forgetfulness, not counting the cost nor caring; simply a whim.
She had brought him here to crush him for his impertinence; and that
purpose was no longer in her mind. Was she sorry? Did he cause her some
uneasiness, some regret and sadness? It was too late. There could be no
Prince Charming in her world. He had tarried too long by the way. Not
that there was the least sentiment in her heart regarding him; but his
presence, his freshness, his frank honesty, these caused her to resort
to comparisons. It was too late indeed.
On the little table was a Tuscany brass lamp of three wicks, fed by
olive oil. It was sufficient to light the table, but the rest of the
room was sunk in darkness. He half understood that there was a definite
purpose in this semi-illumination: she had no wish that he should by
chance recognize anything familiar in this house. Dimly he could see the
stein-rack and the plate-shelf running around the walls. Sometimes, as
the light flickered, a stein or a plate stood out boldly, as if to
challenge his memory.
He watched her hands. The fingers were free from rings. Was she single
or married? The maid had called her signora; but that might have been a
disguise, like the mask and the patches of court-plaster.
"May I ask you one question?"
"No," promptly. There was something in his eyes that made her grow wary
of a sudden.
"Then I shan't ask it. I shall not ask you if you are married."
"And I shall not say one way or the other."
She smiled and he laughed quietly. He had put the question and she had
answered it.
Neither of them ate much of this elaborate dinner. A game like this
might easily dull the sharpest appetite. He studied her head, the curves
of her throat, the little gestures, the way her shoulders seemed to
narrow when she shrugged; and all these pictures he stored away for
future need. He would meet her again; a touch of prescience told him
this. When, where, did not matter.
A running conversation; a fencing match with words and phrases. Time
after time she touched him; but with all his skill he could not break
through her guard. Once or twice he thrust in a manner which was not in
accord with the rules.
"And that interesting dissertation on the American gentleman?" she said
icily, putting aside each thrust with a parry of this kind.
"That's the trouble with posing as a moralist; one must live up to the
precepts. Would you believe me if I told you that, at the age of
three-and-thirty, I am still heart-whole?"
She parried: "I trust you will not spoil that excellent record by making
love to me." She reached for the matches, touched off one, watched it
burn for a moment, extinguished it, and then deliberately drew a line
across the center of the table-cloth.
[Illustration: She deliberately drew a line across the centre of the
table-cloth]
"Now what might that represent?" he asked curiously.
"A line, Mr. Hillard. The moment you cross that line, that moment you
leave this house. On guard!"
"Come, that is not brave. You can retreat till your shoulders touch the
mat, but I must stand this side of the line, unable to reach you. And
you have the advantage of the mask besides. You are not a fair fencer."
"The odds should be in my favor. I am a woman. My wrist is not so strong
as yours."
"Physically, of course, I may pass the line; to reach the salt, for
instance. Will that be against the rules?"
"To a certain extent, no."
"You make it very hard. You have put temptation in my path."
"Bid Satan get behind thee."
"But supposing he should take it into his head to--shoulder me forward?"
"In that case, under the new rules, I should referee the matter."
"I wish I knew the color of your eyes. Behind those holes I see nothing
but points of fire, no color. Are they blue, brown, grey?"
"They are blue. But supposing I wear this mask because my face is
dreadfully scarred, and that I have some vanity?"
"Vanity, yes; but scars, never; at least never so deep as you yourself
can make. You do not wear that mask to cover defects, but out of mercy
to me."
And so the duel went on. Sometimes the heat of the mask almost
suffocated her, and she could hardly resist the desire to tear it from
her face. Yet, in spite of this discomfort, she was enjoying herself.
This adventure was as novel to her as it was to him. Once she rose and
approached the window, slyly raising the mask and breathing deeply of
the cold air which rushed in through the crevices. When she turned she
found that he, too, had risen. He was looking at the steins, one of
which he held in his hand. Moreover, he returned and set the stein down
beside his plate.
"Tell me, why do you do that?" There was an anxious note in her voice.
"I have an idea. But let us proceed with the dinner. This salad--"
"I am more interested in the idea." She pushed aside the salad and took
a sip of the ruby Burgundy. Had he discovered something?
"May I smoke?" he asked.
"By all means."
He lighted a cigarette and put the case near the line.
"Do you not enjoy a cigarette?"
"Sometimes," she answered. "But that idea--"
"Will you not have one?" He moved the case still nearer to the line.
She reached out a firm round white arm.
"One moment," he said; "let us understand each other thoroughly."
"What do you mean?" her arm poised in mid-air. "To touch a cigarette you
must cross the line to this side."
She withdrew her arm slowly.
"I shall not smoke. If I crossed the line I should establish a dangerous
precedent. A good stroke. Now, the idea. I must have that idea."
He blew the smoke toward the lamp; it sailed over the flaming wicks and
darted into the dark beyond.
"The mirror over the piano confused me. I had seen it somewhere before.
Then, there was that old copy of Botticelli. The frame was familiar, but
I could not place it. This stein, however!" He laughed; the laughter was
boyish, even triumphant.
"Well, that stein?" She was now leaning across the table, her fingers
tense on the cloth.
"I bought that stein two seasons ago. This is the Sandfords' place, and
you are the veiled lady who has been riding Mrs. Sandford's favorite
hunter in the park."
"And so?"
