Micklegate Bar. Richard III. was welcomed there 
before his rout and death at Bosworth, and was truly 
mourned by the citizens. Henry VII. wedded Eliza- 
beth, the " White Rose of York," and afterward visited 
her city; Mary, Queen of Scots, was once in hiding- 
there, and her uncouth son stayed two nights in York 
on his way to be crowned James I. in London. His 

son, Charles I., was there early in his reign, and touch- 
ed many for the king's evil ; later, he was there again, 
but could not cure the sort of king's evil which raged 
past all magic in the defeat of his followers at Marston 
Moor by Cromwell. The city yielded to the Puritans, 
whose temperament had already rather characterized it. 
James II., as Duke of York, made it his brief sojourn ; 
" proud Cumberland," returning from Culloden after 
the defeat of the Pretender, visited the city and re- 
ceived its freedom for destroying the last hope of the 
Stuarts; perhaps the twenty-two rebels who were then 
put to death in York were executed in the very square 
where those wicked men thought I was wanting to play 
the horses. The reigning family has paid divers visits 
to the ancient metropolis, which was the capital of 
Britain before London was heard of. The old prophecy 
of her ultimate primacy must make time if it is to 
fulfil itself and increase York's seventy-two thousand 
beyond London's six million. 



IX 

I should be at a loss to say why* its English memo- 
ries haunted my York less than the Roman associations 
of the place. They form, however, rather a clutter of 
incidents, whereas the few spreading facts of Hadrian's 
stay, the deaths of Severus and Constantius, and the 
election of Constantine, his son, enlarge themselves to 
the atmospheric compass of the place, but leave a 
roominess in which the fancy may more commodi- 
ously orb about. I was on terms of more neighborly 
intimacy with the poor Punic emperor than with any 
one else in York, doubtless because, when he fell sick, 
he visited the temple of Bellona near Bootham Bar, 



and paid his devotions unmolested, let us hope, by any 
prevision of the misbehavior of his son Caracalla 
(whose baths I had long ago visited at Rome) in 
killing his other son Geta. Everywhere I could be an 
early Christian, in company with Constantine, in whom 
the instinct of political Christianity must have begun 
to stir as soon as he was chosen emperor. But I dare 
say I heard the muted tramp of the Sixth Legion about 
the Yorkish streets above all other martial sounds be- 
cause I stayed as long as Doncaster Week would let 
me in the railway hotel, which so many of their bones 
made room for when the foundations of it were laid, 
with those of the adherent station. Their bones seem 
to have been left there, after the disturbance, but their 
sepulchres were respectfully transferred to the museum 
of the Philosophical Society, in the grounds where the 
ruins of St. Mary's Abbey rise like fragments of pen- 
sive music or romantic verse, inviting the moonlight 
and the nightingale, but, wanting these, make shift 
with the noonday and the babies in perambulators neg- 
lected by nurse-girls reading novels. 

The babies and the nurses are not allowed in the 
museum of antiquities, which is richer in Roman re- 
mains than any that one sees outside of Italy. There 
are floors of mosaic, large and perfect, taken from the 
villas which people are always digging up in the neigh- 
borhood of York, and, from the graves uncovered in the 
railway excavations, coffins of lead and stone for civ- 
ilians, and of rude tiles for the soldiers of the Sixth 
Legion; the slaves were cast into burial-pits of tens 
and twenties and left to indiscriminate decay till they 
should be raised in the universal incorruption. Prob- 
ably the slaves were the earliest Christians at York; 
certainly the monuments are pagan, as the inmates of 

the tombs must have been. Some of the monuments 

 

bear inscriptions from loving wives and husbands to 
the partners they have lost, and some of the stone coffins 
are those of children. It is all infinitely touching, and 
after two thousand years the heart aches for the fathers 
and mothers who laid their little ones away in these 
hard cradles for their last sleep. Faith changes, but 
constant death remains the same, and life is not very 
different in any age, when it comes to the end. The 
Roman exiles who had come so far to hold my British 
ancestors in subjection to their alien rule seemed es- 
sentially not only of the same make as me, but the 
same civilization. Their votive altars and inscriptions 
to other gods expressed a human piety of like anxiety 
and helplessness with ours, and called to a like irre- 
sponsive sky. A hundred witnesses of their mortal 
state jars and vases and simple household utensils 
fill the shelves of the museum ; but the most awful, the 
most beautiful appeal of the past is in that mass of 
dark auburn hair which is kept here in a special urn 
and uncovered for your supreme emotion. It is equally 
conjectured to be the hair of a Roman lady or of a 
British princess, but is of a young girl certainly, dress- 
ed twenty centuries ago for the tomb in which it was 
found, and still faintly lucent with the fashionable 
unguent of the day, and kept in form by pins of jet. 
One thinks of the little, slender hands that used to put 
them there, and of the eyes that confronted themselves 
in the silver mirror under the warm shadow that the 
red -gold mass cast upon the white forehead. This 
sanctuary of the past was the most interesting place 
in that most interesting city of York, and the day of 
our first visit a princess of New York sat reading a 
book in the midst of it, waiting for the rain to be 
over, which was waiting for her to come out and then 
begin again. We knew her from having seen her at 


the station in relation to some trunks bearing her in- 
itials and those of her native city; and she could be 
about the age of the York princess or young Roman 
lady whose hair was kept in the urn hard by. 



There is in York a little, old, old church, whose dear 
and reverend name I have almost forgotten, if ever I 
knew it, but I think it is Holy Trinity Goodramgate, 
which divides the heart of my adoration with the Min- 
ster. We came to it quite by accident, one of our sad 
September afternoons, after we had been visiting the 
Guildhall, Venetianly overhanging the canal calm of 
the Ouse, and very worthy to be seen for its York 
histories in stained glass. The custodian had surprised 
us and the gentlemen of the committee by taking us 
into the room where they were investigating the claims 
of the registered voters to the suffrage; and so, much 
entertained and instructed, we issued forth, and, pass- 
ing by the church in which Guy Fawkes was baptized, 
only too ineffectually, we came quite unexpectedly upon 
Holy Trinity Goodramgate, if that and not another is 
indeed its name. N 

It stands sequestered in a little leafy and grassy 
space of its own, with a wall hardly overlooked on one 
side by low stone cottages, the immemorial homes of 
rheumatism and influenza. The church had the air of 
not knowing that it is of Perpendicular and Decorated 
Gothic, with a square, high - shouldered tower, as it 
bulks up to a very humble height from the turf to 
the boughs overhead, or that it has a nice girl sketching 
its doorway, where a few especially favored weddings 
and funerals may enter. It is open once a year for 

 

service, and when the tourist will, or can, for the sight 
of the time-mellowed, beautiful stained glass of its east- 
ward window. The oaken pews are square and high- 
shouldered, like the low church tower; and, without, 
the soft yellow sandstone is crumbling away from the 
window traceries. The church did not look as if it 
felt itself a thousand years old, and perhaps it is not; 
but I never was in a place where I seemed so like a 
ghost of that antiquity. I had a sense of haunting it, 
in the inner twilight and the outer sunlight, where a 
tender wind was stirring the leaves of its embowering 
trees and scattering them on the graves of my eleventh 
and twelfth century contemporaries. 



XI 



We chose the sunniest morning we could for our 
visit to Clifford's Tower, which remains witness of the 
Norman castle the Conqueror built and rebuilt to keep 
the Danish-Anglian-Roman-British town in awe. But 
the tower was no part of the original castle, and only 
testifies of it by hearsay. That was built by Roger do 
Clifford, who suffered death with his party chief, the 
Earl of Lancaster, when Edward of York took the city, 
and it is mainly memorable as the refuge of the Jews 
whom the Christians had harried out of their homes. 
They had grown in numbers and riches, when the Jew- 
hate of 1190 broke out in England, as from time to 
time the Jew-hate breaks out in Russia now, to much 
the same cruel effect. They were followed and be- 
sieged in the castle, and, seeing that they must be 
captured, they set fire to the place, and five hundred 
slew themselves. Some that promised to be Christians 
came out and were killed by their brethren in Christ. 



In New York the Christians have grown milder, and 
now they only keep the Jews out of their clubs and 
their homes. 

The Clifford Tower leans very much to one side, so 
that as you ascend it for the magnificent view from the 
top you have to incline yourself the other way, as you 
do in the Tower of Pisa, to help it keep its balance. 
The morning of our visit, so gay in its forgetfulness 
of the tragical past, we found the place in charge of 
an old soldier, an Irishman who had learned, as cus- 
todian, a professional compassion for those poor Jews 
of nine hundred years ago, and, being moved by our 
confession of our nationality, owned to three " nev- 
vies " in New Haven. So small is the world and so 
closely knit in the ties of a common humanity and a 
common citizenship, native and adoptive ! 

The country around York looked so beautiful from 
Clifford's Tower that we would not be satisfied till we 
had seen it closer, and we chose a bright, cool September 
afternoon for our drive out of the town and over the 
breezy, high levels which surround it. The first British 
capital could hardly have been more nobly placed, and 
one could not help grieving that the Ouse should have 
indolently lost York that early dignity by letting its 
channel fill up with silt and spoil its navigation. The 
Thames managed better for York's upstart rival Lon- 
don, and yet the Ouse is not destitute of sea or river 
craft. These were of both steam and sail, and I my- 
self have witnessed the energy with which the reluc- 
tance of the indolent stream is sometimes overcome. I 
do not suppose that anywhere else, when the wind is 
low, is a vessel madly hurled through the water at a 
mile an hour by means of a rope tied to its mast and 
pulled by a fatherly old horse under the intermittent 
drivership of two boys whom he could hardly keep to 

 

the work. I loved the banks of a stream where one 
could see such a triumph of man over nature, and where 
nature herself was so captivating. All that grassy and 
shady neighborhood seemed a public promenade, where 
on a Sunday one could see the lower middle classes in 
their best and brightest, and it had for all its own the 
endearing and bewitching name of Ings. Why cannot 
we have Ings by the Hudson side ? 




CERTAINLY I had not come to York, as certainly I 
would not have gone anywhere, for battle - fields, but 
becoming gradually sensible in that city that the bat- 
tle of Marston Moor was fought a few miles away, 
and my enemy Charles I. put to one of his worst de- 
feats there, I bought a third-class ticket and ran out 
to the place one day for whatever emotion awaited 
me there. 



At an English station you are either overwhelmed 
with transportation, or you are without any except 
such as you were born with, and at the station for 
Marston Moor I asked for a fly in vain. But it was 
a most walkable afternoon, and the pleasant road 
into the region which the station-master indicated as 
that I was seeking invited the foot by its level stretch, 
sometimes under wayside trees, but mostly between 
open fields, newly reaped and still yellow with their 
stubble, or green with the rowen clover. Sometimes 
it ran straight and sometimes it curved, but it led so 
rarely near any human habitation that one would rather 
not have met any tramps beside one's self on it. Pres- 
ently I overtook one, a gentle old farm-wife, a withered 

blonde, whom I helped with the bundles she bore in 

 

either hand, in the hope that she could tell me whether 
I was near Marston Moor or not. But she could tell 
me only, what may have been of higher human inter- 
est, that her husband had the grass farm of a hundred 
and fifty acres, which we were coming to, for seventy- 
five pounds a year; and they had their own cattle, 
sheep, and horses, and were well content with them- 
selves. She excused herself for not knowing more than 
vaguely of the battle - field, as not having been many 
years in the neighborhood; and being now come to a 
gate in the fields, she thanked me and took her way 
up a grassy path to the pleasant farmhouse I saw in 
the distance. 

It must have been about this time that it rained, 
having shone long enough for English weather, and 
it hardly held up before I was overtaken by a friend- 
ly youth on a bicycle, whom I stayed with the question 
uppermost in my mind. He promptly got off his wheel 
to grapple with the problem. He was a comely young 
fellow, an artisan of some sort from a neighboring 
town, and he knew the country well, but he did not 
know where my lost battle - field was. He was sure 
that it was near by: but he was sure there was no 
monument to mark the spot. Then we parted friends, 
with many polite expressions, and he rode on and I 
walked on. 

For a mile and more I met no other wayfarer, and 
as I felt that it was time to ask for Marston Moor 
again, I was very glad to be overtaken by a gentleman 
driving in a dog-cart, with his pretty young daughter 
on the wide seat with him. He halted at sight of the 
elderly pilgrim, and hospitably asked if he could not 
give him a lift, alleging that there was plenty of room. 
He was interested in my search, which he was not able 

definitely to promote, but he believed that if I would 

 

drive with him to his place I could find the battle-field, 
and, anyhow, I could get a trap hack from the The 
Sun. I pleaded the heat I was in from walking, and 
the danger for an old fellow of taking cold in a drive 
through the cool air; and then, as old fellows do, we 
hantered each other about our ages, each claiming to be 
older than the other, and the kind, sweet young girl 
sat listening with that tolerance of youth for the trivi- 
ality of age which is so charming. When he could do 
no more, he said he was sorry, and wished me luck, 
and drove on ; and I being by this time tired with my 
three miles' tramp, took advantage of a wayside farm- 
house, the first in all the distance, and went in and 
asked for a cup of tea. 

The farm-wife, who came in out of her back gar- 
den to answer my knock, pleaded regretfully that 
her fire was down; but she thought I could get tea 
at the next house ; and she was very conversable about 
the battle - field. She did not know just where it was, 
but she was sure it was quite a mile farther on; and 
at that I gave up the hope of it along with the tea. 
This is partly the reader's loss, for I have no doubt 
I could have been very graphic about it if I had 
found it; but as for Marston Moor, I feel pretty 
certain that if it ever existed it does not now. A 
moor, as I understand, implies a sort of wildness, 
but nothing could be more domestic than the peaceful 
fields between which I had come so far, and now easily 
found my way back to the station. Easily, I say, but 
there was one point where the road forked, though I 
was sure it had not forked before, and I felt myself 
confronted with some sort, any sort, of exciting ad- 
venture. By taking myself firmly in hand, and say- 
ing, " It was yonder to the left where I met my kind 
bicycler, and we vainly communed of my evanescent 

 

battle-field," and so keeping on, I got safely to the sta- 
tion with nothing more romantic in my experience than 
a thrilling apprehension. 




I quite forgot Marston Moor in my self-gratulation 
and my recognition of the civility from every one which 
had so ineffectively ahetted my search. Simple and 
gentle, how hospitable they had all been to my vain in- 
quiry, and how delicately they had forborne to visit 
the stranger with the irony of the average American 
who is asked anything, especially anything he does not 
know! I went thinking that the difference was a dif- 
ference between human nature long mellowed to its 
conditions, and human nature rasped on its edges and 
fretted by novel circumstances to a provisional harsh- 
ness. I chose to fancy that unhuman nature sym- 
pathized with the English mood; in the sheep bleat- 
ing from the pastures I heard the note of Words- 
worth's verse; and by the sky, hung in its low blue 
with rough, dusky clouds, I was canopied as with a 
canvas of Constable's. 

It was the more pity, then, that at the station a 
shooting party, approaching from the other quarter with 
their servants and guns and dogs, and their bags of 
hares and partridges, should have given English life 
another complexion to the wanderer so willing to see 
it always rose color. The gunners gained the station 
platform first, and at once occupied the benches, strew- 
ing all the vacant places with their still bleeding prey. 
I did not fail of the opportunity to see in them the 
arrogance of class, which I had hitherto so vainly ex- 
pected, and I disabled their looks by finding them as 

 




rude as their behavior. How different they were from 
the kind bicycler, or the gentleman in the dog-cart, or 
either one of the farm-wives who sorrowed so civilly 
not to know where my lost battle-field was ! 

In England, it is always open to the passenger to 
enforce a claim to his share of the public facilities, but 
I chose to go into the licensed victualler's next the 
station and sit down to a peaceable cup of tea rather 
than contest a place on that bloody benching; and so 
I made the acquaintance of an interior out of litera- 
ture, such as my beloved Thomas Hardy likes to paint. 
On a high-backed rectangular settle rising against the 
wall, and almost meeting in front of the comfortable 
range, sat a company of rustics, stuffing themselves 
with cold meat, washed down with mugs of ale, and 
cozily talking. They gained indefinitely in my inter- 
est from being served by a lame woman, with a rhyth- 
mical limp, and I hope it was not for my demerit that 
I was served apart in the chillier parlor, when I should 
have liked so much to stay and listen to the rustic tale 
or talk. The parlor was very depressingly papered, but 
on its walls I had the exalted company of his Majesty 
the King, their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Prin- 
cess of Wales, the late Premier, the Marquis of Salis- 
bury, and, for no assignable reason except a general 
fitness for high society, the twelve Apostles in Da 
Vinci's Last Supper, together with an appropriate view 
of York Minster. 

 

I do not pretend this search for the battle-field of 
Marston Moor was the most exciting episode of my stay 
in York. In fact, I think it was much surpassed in a 

climax of dramatic poignancy incident to our excur- 

 

sion to Bishopsthorpe, down the Ouse, on one of the 
cosey little steamers which ply the stream without un- 
reasonably crowding it against its banks. It was a 
most silvery September afternoon when we started from 
the quay at York, and after escaping from embarkment 
on a boat going in the wrong direction, began, with no 
unseemly swiftness, to scuttle down the current. It was 
a perfect voyage, as perfect as any I ever made on the 
Mississippi, the Ohio, the St. Lawrence, or the Hud- 
son, on steamers in whose cabins our little boat would 
have lost itself. We had a full but not crowded 
company of passengers, overflowing into a skiff at 
our stern, in which a father and mother, with three 
women friends, preferred the high excitement of be- 
ing towed to Bishopsthorpe, where it seemed that the 
man of the party knew the gardener. With each curve 
of the river and with each remove we got the city in 
more and more charming retrospective, till presently 
its roofs and walls and spires and towers were lost in 
the distance, and we were left to the sylvan or pastoral 
loveliness of the low shores. Here and there at a pleas- 
ant interval from the river a villa rose against a back- 
ground of rounded tree tops, with Lombardy poplars 
picking themselves out before it, but for the most part 
the tops of the banks, with which we stood even on our 
deck, retreated from the waterside willows in levels of 
meadow-land, where white and red cows were grazing, 
and now and then young horses romping away from 
groups of their elders. It was all dear and kind and 
sweet, with a sort of mid- Western look in its softness 
(as the English landscape often has), and the mud- 
banks were like those of my native Ohio Valley rivers. 
The effect was heightened, on our return, by an aged 
and virtuously poor (to all appearance) flageolet and 
cornet band, playing 'Way down upon the Suwanee 


River,, while the light played in " ditties no-tone " over 
the groves and pastures of the shore, and the shadows 
stretched themselves luxuriously out as if for a long 
night's sleep. There has seldom been such a day since 
I began to grow old ; a soft September gale ruffled and 
tossed the trees finely, and a subtle Italian quality mixed 
with the American richness of the sunshiny air ; so that 
I thought we reached Bishopsthorpe only too soon, and 
I woke from a pleasant reverie to be told that the 
steamer could not land with us, but we must be taken 
ashore in the small boat which we saw putting out for 
us from its moorings. To this day I do not know why 
the steamer could not land, but perhaps the small boat 
had a prescriptive right in the matter. At any rate, 
it was vigorously manned by a woman, who took tup- 
pence from each of us for her service, and presently 
earned it by the interest she showed in our getting to 
the Archbishop's palace, or villa, the right way. 

So we went round by an alluring road to its fork- 
ing, where, looking up to the left, we could see a pretty- 
village behind Lombardy poplars, and coming down 
toward us in a victoria for their afternoon drive, two 
charmingly dressed ladies, with bright parasols, and 
looking very county - family, as we poor Americans 
imagine such things out of English fiction. We en- 
tered the archiepiscopal grounds through a sympa- 
thetic Gothic screen, as I will call the overture to 
the Gothic edifice in my defect of architectural ter- 
minology, though perhaps gateway would be simpler; 
and found ourselves in the garden, and in the company 
of those people we had towed down behind our steamer. 
They were with their friend, the gardener, and, claim- 
ing their acquaintance as fellow-passengers, we made 
favor with him to see the house. The housekeeper, or 
some understudy of hers, who received us, said the f am- 
  

ily were away, but she let us follow her through. That 
is more than I will let the reader do, for I know the 
duty of the cultivated American to the intimacies of 
the gentle English life ; it is only with the simple life 
that I ever make free ; there, I own, I have no scruple. 
But I will say (with my back turned conscientiously 
to the interior) that nothing could be lovelier than the 
outlook from the dining - room, and the whole water- 
front of the house, on the wavy and willowy Ouse, and 
that I would willingly be many times an archbishop to 
have that prospect at all my meals. 



IV 

We despatched our visit so promptly that we got 
back to our boat-woman's cottage a full hour before 
our steamer was to call for us. She had an afternoon 
fire kindled in her bright range, from the oven of which 
came already the odor of agreeable baking. Upon this 
hint we acted, and asked if tea were possible. It was, 
and jam sandwiches as well, or if we preferred but- 
tered tea-cake, with or without currants, to jam sand- 
wiches, there would be that presently. We preferred 
both, and we sat down in that pleasant parlor-kitchen, 
and listened, till the tea-cake came out of the oven and 
was split open and buttered smoking hot, to a flow of 
delightful and instructive talk. For our refection we 
paid sixpence each, but for our edification we are still, 
and hope ever to be, in debt. Our hostess was of a 
most cheerful philosophy, such as could not be bought 
of most modern philosophers for money. The flour for 
our tea-cakes, she said, was a shilling fivepence a stone, 
" And not too much for growing and grinding it, and 
all." Every week-day morning she rose at half -past 

 

four, and got breakfast for her boys, who then rode 
their bicycles, or, in the snow, walked, all the miles of 
our voyage into York, where they worked in the rail- 
way shops. ISTo, they did not belong to any union ; the 
railway men did not seem to care for it ; only a " bene- 
fit union." 

She kept the house for her family, and herself 
ready to answer every hail from the steamer ; but in 
her mellow English content, which was not stupid 
or sodden, but clever and wise, it was as if it were 
she, rather than the archbishop, whose nature ex- 
pressed itself in a motto on one of the palace walls, 
" Blessed be the Lord who loadeth us with blessings 
every day!' 

When the range, warming to its work, had made 
her kitchen - parlor a little too hot to hold us, she 
hospitably suggested the river shore as cooler, where 
she knew a comfortable log we could sit on. 
Thither she presently followed when the steam- 
er's whistle sounded, and held her boat for us to 
get safely in. The most nervous of our party of- 
fered the reflection, as she sculled us out into the 
stream to overhaul the pausing st-eamer, that she must 
find the ferry business very shattering to the nerves, 
and she said, 

" Yes, but it's nothing to a murder case I was on, 
once." 

" Oh, what murder, what murder ?" we palpitated 
back; and both of us forgot the steamer, so that it 
almost ran us down, while our ferrywoman began 
again : 

" A man shot a nurse There ! Throw that line, 
will you ?" 

But he, who ought to have thrown the line for her, in 
his distraction let her drop her oar and throw the line 

 

herself, and then we scrambled aboard without hearing 
any more of the murder. 

This is the climax I have been working up to, and 
I call it a fine one ; as good as a story to be continued 
ever ended an instalment with. 




THE Doncaster Races lured us from our hotel at 
York, on the first day, as I had dimly foreboded they 
would. In fact, if there had been no lure, I might 
have gone in search of temptation, for in a world where 
sins are apt to be ugly, a horse-race is so beautiful that 
if one loves beauty he can practise an aesthetic virtue 
by sinning in that sort. So I made myself a pretence 
of profit as well as pleasure, and in going to Doncaster 
I feigned the wish chiefly to compare its high event 
with that of Saratoga. I had no association with the 
place save horse-racing, and having missed Ascot and 
Derby Day, I took my final chance in pursuit of knowl- 
edge I said to myself, " Not mere amusement " and 
set out for Doncaster unburdened by the lightest fact 
concerning the place. 



I learned nothing of it when there, but I have since 
learned, from divers trustworthy sources, that Don- 
caster is the Danum of Antoninus and the Dona 
Ceaster of the Saxons, and that it is not only on the 
line of the Northeastern Eailway, but also on that 
famous Watling Street which from the earliest Saxon 
time has crossed the British continent from sea to sea, 
and seems to impress most of the cities north and south 

 

into a conformity with its line, like a map of the 
straightest American railway routes. 

Unless my ignorance has been abused, nothing re- 
markable has happened at Doncaster in two thousand 
years, but this is itself a distinction in that eventful 
England where so many things have happened else- 
where. It is the market town of a rich farming re- 
gion, and has notable manufactures of iron and brass, 
of sacking and linen, of spun flax and of agricultural 
machines and implements. Otherwise, it is important 
only for its races, which began there three hundred 
years ago, and especially for its St. Leger Day, of which 
Lieutenant-General St. Leger became the patron saint 
in 1778, though he really established his Day two years 
earlier. 

Doncaster is a mighty pleasant, friendly, rather mod- 
ern, and commonplacely American-looking town, with 
two-story trams gently ambling up and down its chief 
avenues, in the leisurely English fashion, and all of 
more or less arrival and departure at the race-grounds. 
In our company the reader will have our appetites for 
lunch, and if he will take his chance with us in the 
first simple place away from the station, he will help 
us satisfy them very wholesomely and agreeably at 
boards which seem festively set up for the occasion, 
and spread with hot roast-beef and the plain vegetables 
which accompany the national dish in its native land; 
or he can have the beef cold, or have cold lamb or 
chicken cold. His fellow-lunchers will be, as he may 
like well enough to fancy, of somewhat lower degree 
than himself, but they will all seem very respectable, 
and when they come out together, they will all be 
equalized in the sudden excitement which has pos- 
sessed itself of the street, and lined the curbstones 
up and down with spectators, their bodies bent for- 
ward, and their faces turned in the direction of the 
station. 





The excitement is caused by the coming of the King ; 
and I wish that I could present that event in just its 
sincere unimpressiveness. I have assisted at several 
such events on the Continent, where, especially in 
Germany, they are heralded as they are in the theatre, 
with a blare of trumpets, and a sensation in the popu- 
lace and the attendant military little short of an ague 
fit. There, as soon as the majesties mount into their 
carriages from the station, they drive off as swiftly as 
their horses can trot, and their subjects, who have been 
waiting for hours to see them, make what they can of 
a meagre half -minute's glimpse of them. But how dif- 
ferent was the behavior of that easy-going Majesty of 
England! As soon as I heard that he was coming, I 
perceived how anxious I had been in the half-year of 
my English sojourn to see him, and how bitterly I 
should have been disappointed to leave his realms with- 
out it. All kings are bad, I knew that well enough; 
but I also knew that some kings are not so bad as 
others, and I had been willing to accept at their face 
the golden opinions of this King, which, almost with- 
out exception, his lieges seemed to hold. Of course 
it is not hard to think well of a king if you are under 
him, just as it is not hard to think ill of him if you 
are not under him ; but there is no use being bigotedly 
republican when there is nothing to be got by it, and 
I own the fact that his subjects like him willingly. 
Probably no man in his kingdom understands better 
than Edward VII. that he is largely a form, and that 



the more a form he is the more conformable he is to 
the English ideal of a monarch. But no Englishman 
apparently knows hetter than he when to leave off be- 
ing a form and become a man, and he has endeared 
himself to his people from time to time by such inspira- 
tions. He is reputed on all hands to be a man of great 
good sense ; if he is ever fooled it is not by himself, but 
by the system which he is no more a part of than the 
least of his subjects. If he will let a weary old man 
or a delicate woman stand indefinitely before him, he 
is no more to blame for that than for speaking English 
with a trace of German in his ih sounds; he did not 
invent his origins or his traditions. Personally, hav- 
ing had it out with life, he is as amiable and as un- 
ceremonious as a king may be. He shares, as far as 
he can, the great and little interests of his people. He 
has not, so far as noted, the gifts of some of his sisters, 
but he has much of his mother's steadfast wisdom, and 
his father's instinct for the right side in considerable 
questions; and he has his father's prescience of the 
psychological moment for not bothering. Of course, 
he is a fetish ; no Englishman can deny that the king- 
ship is an idolatry; but he is a fetish with an uncom- 
mon share of the common man's divinity. The system 
which provides him for the people provides them the 
best administration in the world, always naturally in 
the hands of their superiors, social and political; but 
we could be several times rottener than we adminis- 
tratively are, and still be incalculably reasonabler, as 
republicans, than those well-governed monarchists. 

Some of us are apt to forget the immense advan- 
tage which we have of the monarchical peoples in hav- 
ing cast away the very name of King, for with the name 
goes the nature of royalty and all that is under and 
around it. But because we are largely a fond and sillv 

 

folk, with a false conceit of ourselves and others, we 
like to make up romances about the favor in which 
thrones, municipalities, and powers hold us. Once it 
was the Tsar of Russia who held us dear, and would 
do almost anything for Americans ; now it is the King 
of England who is supposed rather to prefer us to his 
own people, and to delight to honor us. We attribute 
to him a feeling which a little thought would teach us 
was wholly our own-, and which would be out of nature 
if not out of reason with him. He is a man of sense, 
and not of sentiment, and except as a wise politician 
he could have no affection for a nation whose existence 
denies him. He is very civil to Americans ; it is part 
of a constitutional king's business to be civil to every 
one; but he is probably not sentimental about us; and 
we need not be sentimental about him. 

He looked like a man of sense, and not like a man 
of sentiment, that day as he drove through the Don- 
caster street on his way to the sport he loves beyond 
any other sport. He sat with* three other gentlemen on 
the sidewise seats of the trap, preceded by outriders, 
which formed the simple turnout of the greatest prince 
in the world. He was at the end on the right, and he 
showed fully as stout as he was, in the gray suit he 
wore, while he lifted his gray top-hat now and* then, 
bowing casually, almost absently, to the spectators 
fringing, not too deeply, the sidewalks. He was very, 
very stout, even after many seasons of Marienbad, and 
after the sufferings he had lately undergone, and he 
was quite like the pictures and effigies of him, down 
to those on the postage-stamps. He has a handsome 
face, still bearded in the midst of a mostly clean- 
shaving nation, and with the white hairs prevalent 
on the cheeks and temples; his head is bald atop, 
though hardly from the uneasiness of wearing a crown. 



It was difficult to realize him for what he was, and, 
in the unmilitary keeping of a few policemen, he was 
not of the high histrionic presence that those German 
majesties were. The good-natured crowd did not strain 
itself in cheering, though it seemed to cheer cordially ; 
and it did not stay long after the trap tooled com- 
fortably away. I then addressed myself to a little 
knot of railway servants who lingered talking, and 
asked them what some carriages were still waiting for 
at the door of the station, and one of them answered 
with a lightness you do not expect in England, " Oh, 
Lord This, and Lady That, and the Hon. Mr. I-don't- 
know-what's-his-name." The others laughed at this 
ribald satire of the upper classes, and I thought it 
safer to follow the King to the races lest I should 
hear worse things of them. 




The races were some miles away, and when we got 
to the tracks we did not find their keeping very dif- 
ferent from that of the Saratoga tracks, though the 
crowd was both smarter and shabbier, and it had got 
to the place through a town of tents and sheds, and a 
population of hucksters and peddlers, giving an effect 
of permanency to the festivity such as a solemnity of 
ours seldom has. When we bought our tickets we 
found, in the familiarity with the event expected of 
us, that there was no one to show us to our places; 
but by dint of asking we got to the Grand Stand, and 
mounted to our seats, which, when we stood up from 
them, commanded a wholly satisfactory prospect of the 
whole field. 

I do not know the dimensions of the Doncaster track, 

 

or how far they exceed those of the Saratoga track. 
Possibly one does not do its extent justice because 
there is no track at Doncaster: there is nothing but 
a green turf, with a certain course railed off on it. I 
hope the reader will be as much surprised as I was 
to realize that the sport of horse-racing in England 
gets its name of Turf from the fact that the races are 
run on the grass, and not on the bare ground, as with 
us. We call the sport the Turf, too, but that is be- 
cause in this, as in so many other things, we lack in- 
centive and invention, and are fondly colonial and im- 
itative ; we ought to call it the Dirt, for that is what it 
is with us. As a spectacle, the racing lacks the defini- 
tion in England which our course gives, and when it 
began, I missed the relief into which our track throws 
the bird-like sweep of the horses as they skim the naked 
earth in the distance. 

I missed also the superfluity of jockeying which de- 
lays and enhances the thrill of the start with us, and 
I thought the English were not so scrupulous about an 
even start as we are. But, above all, I missed the 
shining faces and the gleaming eyes of the black 
jockeys, who lend so much gayety to our scene, where 
they seem born to it, if not of it. The crowd thick- 
ened in English bloom and bulk, which is always fine 
to see, and bubbled over with the babble of multitudi- 
nous voices, crossed with the shouts of the book-makers. 
Having failed to enter any bets with the book-makers 
of The Pavement in York, I did not care to make them 
here. With all my passion for racing, I never know 
or care which horse wins ; but I tried to enter into the 
joy of a diffident young fellow near me at the Grand 
Stand rail, who was so proud of having guessed as 
winner the horse next to the winner at the first race; 
it was coming pretty close. By the end of the third 

 

race he had softened into something like confidence 
toward me ; certainly into conversability ; such was the 
effect of my being a dead-game sport, or looking it. 
But how account for the trustfulness of the young 
woman on my other hand who wore her gold watch 
outside her dress, and who turned to the elderly stranger 
for sympathy in a certain supreme moment? This 
was when the crowd below crumpled suddenly together 
like the crushing of paper and the sense of something 
tragically mysterious in the distance clarified itself as 
the death of one of the horses. It had dropped from 
heart-break in its tracks, as if shot, and presently a 
string of young men and boys came dragging to some 
spoliarium the long, slender body of the pretty creature 
over the turf which its hoofs had beaten a moment be- 
fore. Then it was that the girl, with the watch on her 
breast, turned and asked, " Isn't it sad ?" 



IV 

She was probably not the daughter of a hundred 
earls, but there must have been some such far-descended 
