me as her husband’s old acquaintance, and that his memory has drawn us
together in bonds of affectionate regard.
Thomas Bailey Aldrich was then (in 1855) a mere stripling, yet already
famous as the author of Babie Bell and Elsinore, poems that would
have immortalized him had he not written another line. I came to know
him well during my Northern sojourn. His charming personality won
hearts as inevitably as his genius commanded admiration. Halleck’s
hackneyed eulogy of his early friend might be applied, and without
dissent, to the best-belovéd of our later poets. To know him was
to love him. The magnetism of the rarely-sweet smile, the frank
sincerity of his greeting, the direct appeal of the clear eyes to the
brother-heart which, he took for granted, beat responsive to his, were
irresistible, even to the casual acquaintance. His letters were simply
bewitching—as when I wrote to him after each of us had grown children,
asking if he would give my youngest daughter the autograph she coveted
from his hand.
He began by begging me to ask him, the next time I wrote, for something
that he could do, not for what was impossible for him to grant. He
had laid it down as a rule, not to be broken under any temptation,
whatsoever, that he would never give his autograph.
    “If I could make an exception in the present case, you
    know how gladly I would do it, only to prove that I am
    unalterably your friend,
                                   “THOMAS BAILEY ALDRICH.”
He graced whatever he touched, and made the commonplace poetic. The
ineffable tenderness and purity of his verse were the atmosphere in
which the man lived and moved and breathed. The mystic afflatus of the
born poet clothed him, as with a garment.
George P. Morris I met again and again. With the frank conceit, so
permeated with the amiability and naïveté of the veteran songster, that
it offended nobody, he told me how Braham had sung Woodman, Spare That
Tree, before Queen Victoria, at her special request, and that Jenny
Marsh of Cherry Valley was more of an accepted classic than Roy’s
Wife of Aldivalloch. He narrated, too, the thrilling effect produced
upon an audience in New York or Philadelphia by the singing for the
first time in public of Near the Rock Where Drooped the Willow, and
smiled benignantly on hearing that it was a favorite ballad in our
home. He was then associated with N. P. Willis in the editorship of
The New York Mirror, and agreed fully with me that it had not its
peer among American literary periodicals.
My mother had taken it for years. We had a shelf full of the bound
volumes at home. I have some of them in my own library, and twice
or three times in the year, have a rainy afternoon-revel over the
yellowed, brittle pages mottled with the mysterious, umber thumbmarks
of Time.
Colonel Morris’s partner, Nathaniel Parker Willis, who had not yet
taken to writing out the name at full length, was at his country-seat
of “Idlewild.” He was ten years older when I saw him last, and under
circumstances that took the sting from regret that I had not met him
when life was fresh and faiths were easily confirmed.
While in Dorchester I had enjoyed improving my acquaintanceship with
Maria Cummins. Encyclopædias register her briefly as “An American
novelist. She wrote The Lamplighter.” In 1855, no other woman writer
was so prominently before the reading public. The Lamplighter was in
every home, and gossip of the personality of the author was seized upon
greedily by press and readers. Meeting Augusta Evans, of Rutledge and
St. Elmo and Beulah, four years thereafter, I was forcibly reminded
of my Dorchester friend, albeit they belonged to totally different
schools of literature. Both were quietly refined in manner and speech,
and incredibly unspoiled by the flood of popular favor that had taken
each by surprise. Alike, too, was the warmth of cordiality with which
both greeted me, a stranger, whom they might never meet again.
An amusing incident connected with one of Maria Cummins’s visits broke
down any lingering trace of strangerhood. She was to take tea at the
house of my cousin, Francis Pierce. I was sitting by the window of the
drawing-room, awaiting her arrival and gazing at the panorama of Boston
Bay and the intervening hills, when an old lady, a relative-in-law of
“Cousin Melissa,” stole in. She was over eighty, and so pathetically
alone in the lower world that Melissa—the personation of Charity,
which is Love—had granted her home and care for several years. She
had donned her best cap and gown; as she crept up to me, she glanced
nervously from side to side, and her withered hands chafed one another
in agitation she could not conceal.
“I say, dearie,” she began, in a whisper, bending down to my face,
“would you mind if I was to sit in the corner over there”—nodding
toward the back parlor—“and listen to your talk after Miss Cummins
comes? I won’t make the least mite of noise. I am an old woman. I never
had a chance to hear two actresses talk before, and I may never have
another.”
I consented, laughingly, and she took up her position just in time to
escape being seen by the incoming guest. We chatted away cheerily at
our far window, watching the sunset as it crimsoned the bay and faded
languidly into warm gray.
“Summer sunsets are associated in my mind, in a dreamy way, with the
tinkle of cow-bells,” observed my companion, and went on to tell how,
as a child, living in Salem, she used to watch the long lines of cows
coming in from the meadows at evening, and how musically the tinkle of
many bells blended with other sunset sounds.
“I have the same association with my Virginia home,” I answered. “So
had Gray with Stoke Pogis. But his herd lowed as it wound slowly over
the lea.”
“Perhaps English cows are hungrier than ours,” Miss Cummins followed,
in like strain. “I prefer the chiming bells.”
We dropped into more serious talk after that. The unseen listener
carried off, up-stairs, when she stole out, like my little gray ghost,
but one impression of the “actresses’” confabulation. Cousin Melissa
told me of it next day. The old lady was grievously disappointed. We
had talked of nothing but cows and cow-bells, and cows coming home
hungry for supper, and such stuff. “For all the world as if they had
lived on a dairy-farm all their days!”
I supped with Miss Cummins and her widowed mother a day or so later,
and we made merry together over the poor crone’s chagrin.
It was rather singular that in our several meetings neither of us spoke
of Adeline D. T. Whitney. She had not then written the books that
brought for her love and fame in equal portions. But she was Maria
Cummins’s dear friend, and a near neighbor of the Pierces. When we, at
last, formed an intimacy that ceased only with her life, we wondered
why this should have been delayed for a score of years, when we had so
nearly touched, during that and other visits to my ancestral home.
At our earliest meeting in her Milton cottage, whither I had gone by
special invitation, she hurried down the stairs with outstretched hands
and—“I cannot meet you as a stranger. My dear friend, Maria Cummins,
has often talked to me of you!”
In the hasty sketch of a few representative members of the Literary
Guild of America, as it existed a half-century ago, I have made good
what I intimated a few chapters back, in alluding to my introductory
experience of professional jealousies, which, if cynics are to be
credited, pervade the ranks of authors, as the mysterious, fretting
leprosy ate into the condemned garment of the ancient Israelite. In
all frankness, and with a swelling of heart that is both proud and
thankful, I aver that no other order, or class, of men and women is so
informed and permeated and colored with generous and loyal appreciation
of whatever is worthy in the work of a fellow-craftsman; so little
jealous of his reputation; so ready to make his wrongs common property,
and to assist the lowliest member of the Guild in the hour of need.
I make no exception in favor of any profession or calling, in offering
this humble passing tribute to the Fraternity of American Authors. I
could substantiate my assertion by countless illustrations drawn from
personal observation, had I space and time to devote to the task. In my
sixty years of literary life, I have known nearly every writer of note
in our country. In reviewing the list, I bow in spirit, as the seer of
Patmos bent the knee in the presence of the shining ones.
XXIX
ANNA CORA (MOWATT) RITCHIE—EDWARD EVERETT—GOVERNOR WISE—A MEMORABLE
DINNER-PARTY
IN 1854, Anna Cora Mowatt, “American actress, novelist, dramatist, and
poet,” as the cyclopædias catalogue her, left the stage to become the
wife of William Foushee Ritchie, of Richmond, Virginia.
Mrs. Mowatt, née Ogden, was the daughter of a prominent citizen
of New York. She was born in France, and partially educated there.
Returning to America, she married, in her sixteenth year, James Mowatt,
a scholarly and wealthy man, but much the senior of the child-wife.
By a sudden reverse of fortune he was compelled to relinquish the
beautiful country home on Long Island, to which he had taken his wife
soon after their marriage. With the romantic design of saving the home
she loved, Mrs. Mowatt began a series of public readings. Her dramatic
talent was already well known in fashionable private circles. At the
conclusion of the round of readings given in New York and vicinity, she
received a proposal from a theatrical manager to go upon the stage. For
nine years she was a prime favorite with the American theatre-going
public, and almost as popular abroad. She never redeemed “Ravenswood,”
and her husband died while she was in the zenith of her brilliant
success.
Her union with William Ritchie, who had admired her for a long time,
was a love-match on both sides. He brought her to quiet Richmond, and
installed her in a modest cottage on our side of the town, but three
blocks from my father’s house. The Ritchies were one of the best of
our oldest families; Mrs. Mowatt belonged to one as excellent; her
character was irreproachable. I recollect Doctor Haxall insisting upon
this when a very conservative Mrs. Grundy “wondered if we ought to
visit her.”
“You will see, madam, that she will speedily be as popular here as she
has been elsewhere. She is a lovely woman, and as to reputation—hers is
irreproachable—absolutely! No tongue has ever wagged against her.”
I listened with curiosity that had not a tinge of personal concern in
it. It went without saying that an ex-actress was out of my sphere. The
church that condemned dancing was yet more severe upon the theatre.
True, Mrs. Ritchie had left the stage, and, it was soon bruited abroad,
never recited except in her own home and in the fine old colonial
homestead of Brandon, where lived Mr. Ritchie’s sister, Mrs. George
Harrison. But she had trodden the boards for eight or nine years, and
that stamped her as a personage quite unlike the rest of “us.”
So when William Ritchie stopped my father on the street and expressed
a wish that his wife and I should know each other, he had a civil,
non-committal reply, embodying the fact that I was expecting to go
North soon, and would not be at home again before the autumn.
During my absence my father sent me a copy of the Enquirer
containing a review of The Hidden Path, written by Mrs. Ritchie,
so complimentary, and so replete with frank, cordial interest in the
author, that I could not do less than to call on my return and thank
her.
She was not at home. I recall, with a flush of shame, how relieved I
was that a card should represent me, and that I had “done the decent
thing.” The “decent thing,” in her opinion, was that the call should be
repaid within the week.
No picture of her that I have seen does her even partial justice. In
her youth she was extremely pretty. At thirty-eight, she was more than
handsome. Time had not dimmed her exquisite complexion; her hair had
been cut off during an attack of brain-fever, and grew out again in
short, fair curls; her eyes were soft blue; her teeth dazzlingly white.
Of her smile Edgar Allan Poe had written: “A more radiant gleam could
not be imagined.” In manner, she was as simple as a child. Not with
studied simplicity, but out of genuine self-forgetfulness.
She struck what I was to learn was the keynote to character and motive,
before I had known her ten minutes. I essayed to thank her for what she
had said of my book. She listened in mild surprise:
“Don’t thank me for an act of mere justice. I liked the book. I write
book-reviews for my husband’s paper. I could not do less than say what
I thought.”
And—at my suggestion that adverse criticism was wholesome for the
tyro—“Why should I look for faults when there is so much good to be
seen without searching?”
A woman of an utterly different type sounded the same note a score of
years afterward.
I said to Frances Willard, whose neighbor I was at a luncheon given in
her honor by the wife of the Commandant at Fort Mackinac:
“You know, Miss Willard, that, as General Howard said just now of us,
you and I ‘don’t train in the same band.’”
“No?” The accent and the sweet candor, the ineffable womanliness of the
eyes that sought mine, touched the spring of memory. “Suppose, then,
we talk only of the many points upon which we do agree? Why seek for
opposition when there are so many harmonies close at hand?”
Of such peacelovers and peacemakers is the kingdom of heaven, by
whatsoever name they are called on earth.
Mrs. Ritchie was a Swedenborgian. I had learned that in her
Autobiography of an Actress. All denominations—including some whose
adherents would not sit down to the Lord’s Supper with certain others,
and those who would not partake of the consecrated “elements” if
administered by non-prelatic hands—united in shutting and bolting the
door of heaven in her face.
In the intimate companionship, unbroken by these and other admonitions,
I never heard from Mrs. Ritchie’s lips a syllable that was not redolent
with the law of kindness. I learned to love her fondly and to revere
her with fervor I would not have believed possible, six months earlier.
It was not her fascination of manner alone that attracted me, or the
unceasing acts of sisterly kindness she poured upon me, that deepened
my devotion. She opened to me the doors of a new world: broadened and
deepened and sweetened my whole nature. We never spoke of doctrines. We
rarely had a talk—and henceforward our meetings were almost daily—in
which she did not drop into my mind some precious grain of faith in
the All-Father; of love for the good and noble in my fellow-man and of
compassion, rather than blame, for the erring. Of her own church she
did not talk. She assumed, rather, that we were “one family, above,
beneath,” and bound by the sacred tie of kinship, to “do good and to
communicate.” She had a helpful hand, as well as a comforting word,
for the sorrowing and the needy. As to her benefactions, I heard of
them, now and again, from others. Now it was an aged gentlewoman, worn
down to the verge of nervous prostration, and too poor to seek the
change of air she ought to have, who was sent at the Ritchies’ expense
to Old Point Comfort for a month; or a struggling music-mistress,
for whom Mrs. Ritchie exerted herself quietly to secure pupils; or a
girl whose talent for elocution was developed by private lessons from
the ex-actress; or a bedridden matron, who had quieter nights after
Mrs. Ritchie ran in, two or three evenings in a week, to read to her
for half an hour in the rich, thrilling voice that had held hundreds
enchanted in bygone days.
To me she was a revelation of good-will to men. She lectured me
sometimes, as a mother might and ought, always in infinite tenderness.
“I cannot have you say that, my child!” she said once, when I broke
into a tirade against the hypocrisy and general selfishness of
humankind at large, and certain offenders in particular. “Nobody is
all-wicked. There is more unconquered evil in some natures than in
others. There is good—a spark of divine fire—in every soul God has
made. Look for it, and you will find it. Encourage it, and it will
shine.”
And in reply to a murmur during the trial-experiences of parish work,
when I “deplored the effect of these belittling cares and petty
commonplaces upon my intellectual growth,” the caressing hand was laid
against my hot cheek.
“Dear! you are the wife of the man of God! It is a sacred trust
committed to you as his helpmate. To shirk anything that helps him
would be a sin. And we climb one step at a time, you know—not by bold
leaps. Nothing is belittling that God sets for us to do.”
She, and some other things, gave me a royal winter.
Another good friend, Mrs. Stanard, had notified me that Edward Everett,
then lecturing in behalf of the Mount Vernon Association, was to be
her guest while in Richmond, and raised me to the seventh heaven of
delighted anticipation by inviting me to meet him at a dinner-party she
would give him. Mrs. Ritchie forestalled the introduction to the great
man by writing a wee note to me on the morning of the day on which the
dinner was to be.
The Mount Vernon Association had for its express object the purchase
of Washington’s home and burial-place, to be held by the Nation, and
not by the remote descendant of Mary and Augustine Washington, who had
inherited it. Mrs. Ritchie was the secretary of the organization.
Her note said:
    “A committee of our Association will wait upon Mr. Everett
    at the Governor’s house this forenoon. I will smuggle you
    in, if you will go with us. I shall call for you at eleven.”
When we four who had come together were ushered into the spacious
drawing-room of the gubernatorial mansion, we had it to ourselves. Mrs.
Ritchie, with a pretty gesture that reminded one of her French birth,
fell to arranging five or six chairs near the middle of the room, into
a seemingly careless group. One faced the rest at a conversational
angle.
“Now!” she uttered, with a playful pretence of secrecy; “you will see
Mr. Everett seat himself just there! He can do nothing else. Call it a
stage trick, if you like. But he must sit there!”
The words had hardly left her lips when Mr. Everett entered,
accompanied by a younger man, erect in carriage and bronzed in
complexion, whom he presented to us as “My son-in-law, Lieutenant Wise.”
To our secret amusement, Mr. Everett took the chair set for him, and
this, when three remained vacant after the ladies were all seated.
Lieutenant Wise and I, as the non-attached personages present, drifted
to the other side of the room while official talk went on between the
orator-statesman and the committee.
The retentive memory, which has, from my babyhood, been both bane and
blessing, speedily identified my companion with the author of Los
Gringos (The Yankees), a satirical and very clever work that had
fallen in my way a couple of years before. He was a cousin of the
Governor. I learned to-day of his connection with the Everetts.
He was social, and a witty talker. I had time to discover this before
the Governor appeared with his daughter, a charming girl of seventeen,
who did the honors of the house with unaffected grace and ease.
I had met her before, and I knew her father quite well. Mrs. Ritchie
had taken herself severely to task that very week for speaking of him
as “our warm-hearted, hot-headed Governor.”
The characterization was just. We all knew him to be both, and loved
him none the less for the warm temper that had hurried him into
many a scrape, political and personal. We were rather proud of his
belligerency, and took real pride in wondering what “he would do next.”
He was eloquent in debate, a bitter partisan, a warrior who would fight
to the death for friend, country or principle. Virginia never had a
Governor whom she loved more, and of whom she was more justly proud.
This was early in the year 1856. I do not recollect that I ever visited
the state drawing-room of the mansion again, until I stood upon a
dais erected on the very spot where Lieutenant Wise and I had chatted
together that brilliant winter day, and I lectured to crowded parlors
in behalf of the Mary Washington Monument Association. Another Governor
reigned in the stead of our warm-hearted and hot-headed soldier.
Another generation of women than that which had saved the son’s tomb to
the Nation was now working to erect a monument over the neglected grave
of the mother.
When the throng had dispersed, “Annie” Wise, now Mrs. Hobson—and still
of a most winsome presence—and I withdrew into a corner to speak of
that five-and-forty-year-old episode, and said: “The fathers, where are
they? And the prophets—they do live forever!”
Of the group collected about Mr. Everett, on the noon preceding the
delivery of his celebrated oration, but we two were left alive upon the
earth.
Of the Stanard dinner I retain a lively recollection. Among the
guests were Lieutenant Wise; Mr. Corcoran, the Washington banker
and philanthropist; his slim, engaging young daughter (afterward
Mrs. Eustis), and Mr. Everett’s son, Sidney. Mrs. Stanard was the
most judicious and gracious of hostesses. “A fashionable leader of
fashionable society!” sneered somebody in my hearing, one day.
Mrs. Ritchie took up the word promptly. Detraction never passed
unchallenged in her presence.
“Fashionable, if you will. But sincere. She is a true-hearted woman.”
In subscribing heartily to the truth of the statement, I append what I
had abundant reason to know and believe. She was a firm friend to those
she loved, steadfast in affection that outlasted youth and prosperity.
She made life smooth for everybody within her reach whenever she could
do it. She had the inestimable talent of divining what would best
please each of her guests, and ministered to weakness and desire.
On this night, she did not need to be told that a personal talk with
the chief guest would be an event to me. She lured me adroitly into a
nook adjoining the drawing-room, and as Mr. Everett, who was staying
in the house, passed the door, she called him in, and presently left
me on his hands for half an hour. He was always my beau ideal of
the perfect gentleman. He talked quietly, in refined modulations and
chaste English that betokened the scholar. Like all really great men,
he bore himself with modest dignity, with never a touch of bluster
or self-consciousness. In five minutes I found myself listening and
replying, as to an old acquaintance. His voice was low, and so musical
as to fasten upon him the sobriquet of the “silver-tongued orator.” I
could repeat, almost verbatim, his part of our talk on that occasion. I
give the substance of one section that impressed me particularly.
We spoke of Hiawatha, then a recent publication. Mr. Everett thought
that Longfellow transgressed artistic rules, and was disobedient
to literary precedent in translating Indian names in the text of
the poem. The repetition of “Minnehaha—Laughing Water,” “The West
Wind—Mudjekeewis,” “Ishkooda—the Comet,” etcetera, was affected and
tedious.
“Moreover,” he continued, smiling, “I have serious doubts respecting
the florid metaphors and highly figurative speech which Cooper and
other writers of North American Indian stories have put into the
mouths of their dusky heroes.” He went on to say that, when Governor
of Massachusetts, he received a deputation of aborigines from the Far
West. In anticipation of the visit, he primed himself with an ornate
address of welcome, couched in the figurative language he imagined
would be familiar and agreeable to the chiefs. This was delivered
through an interpreter, and received in blank silence. Then the
principal sachem replied in curt platitudes, with never a trope or
allegorical allusion. Mr. Everett added that he had learned since
that the vocabulary of the modern Indian is meagre and prosaic in the
extreme.
The justice of the observation was borne in upon me when I sat in James
Redpath’s box at the Indian Exhibition I have spoken of in another
chapter, and heard snatches of alleged oratory as transmitted by a
fluent interpreter to the Newark audience. Anything more tame and bare
it would be hard to imagine.
XXX
A MUSICAL CONVENTION—GEORGE FRANCIS ROOT—WHEN “THE SHINING SHORE” WAS
FIRST SUNG—THE HALLELUJAH CHORUS—BETROTHAL—DEMPSTER IN HIS OLD AGE
REVERSING the wheel of Time by a turn or two, we are in the thick of
preparations for the Christmas of 1855.
It is less than a year since I read and re-read a letter that had lain
among the leaves of my journal for a long term of years. It was never
read by any eyes except my own, and those of him who wrote it. In the
solemn conviction that for any other—no matter how near of kin and dear
of heart—to look upon the lines, would be profanation, I burned the old
letter. Life is short and uncertain. I would take no risks. And what
need of keeping what I can never lose while memory remains faithful to
her trust?
I require no written or printed record to remind me what set that
Yule-tide apart from all the anniversaries that had preceded it, and
distinguished it from all that were to follow in its train.
We had had a guest in the house for three weeks. A Musical
Convention—the first ever held in Richmond—was in session under the
conduct of Lowell Mason and George Francis Root. My father, my sister,
my brother Herbert, and myself were members of a flourishing Sacred
Music Society, composed principally of amateurs, and we had engaged
the distinguished leaders in the profession to preside over the
Conference, by which it was hoped public taste in the matter of choir
and congregational singing might be improved. Classes were formed for
the study of methods and for drill in vocalization. The course would be
closed by a grand concert, in which no professional artists would take
part.
The thought that the imported leaders in the programme should be
allowed to put up at a hotel was opposed to the genius of Southern
hospitality. Doctor and Mrs. Lowell Mason were the honored guests of
Mr. Williams, the President of the Society. My father invited Mr. Root
“to make our house his home while he was in our city.”
That was the old-fashioned form of asking strangers to take bit and sup
and bed with us. We made good the words, too. The “home” was theirs as
truly as it was ours. The Convention was advertised to last ten days.
When the time was nearly expired, the extraordinary success of the
experiment induced the projectors to extend the time to a month. Mr.
Root was for removing to a hotel, but we arose up in arms and forbade
it. His bonhomie, intelligence, and general attractiveness of manner
and disposition had endeared him to us all. We hailed as a reprieve the
postponement of the date of departure. He had never seen a Virginia
Christmas, and here was a special providence he must not overlook.
Household machinery moved as if he had not been there. He entered
jovially into plans, and connived at confidences—the necessary deceits
that are to be condoned by agreeable surprises in the fulness of time.
When the personage whom Mea had long ago dubbed “The Young Evangelist,”
appeared upon the scene a week in advance of the holiday, and spent
three-fourths of each day under our hospitable roof—a state of affairs
that evidently was no new thing—the Professor took in the situation
without the quiver of an eyelash, and asked never a question. He did
more to prove how cordially he was one with the family. Discovering,
in the course of the first evening after the new arrival had enlarged
our circle, that he had an exceptionally fine voice, and knew how to
use it, he pressed him eagerly into service as “the basso he had been
longing for,” and the two sang themselves into each other’s good graces
inside of twenty-four hours.
I had had a cold for a fortnight, and I made the most of my
demi-semi-invalidism when there were sessions of the Convention at
uncanny hours, and secured, instead, quiet evenings at home. All of
which was transparent to our Professor, as I suspected then, and knew
subsequently. He did not disturb a tête-à-tête one December afternoon
by bringing down into the parlor a freshly written sheet of music
he wished to try on the piano. His quartette clustered about the
instrument at his summons, and the hymn was sung over and over. I sat
by the fire and listened. At the third repetition, I asked:
“The music is yours, but where did you get the words?”
Mr. Root answered that his mother had clipped them from a Western
paper, and handed them to him. The music fitted itself to them in his
mind at the first reading. He struck the chords boldly in saying it,
and the four rendered the whole hymn with spirit.
“I am no prophetess,” I commented, “nor the daughter of a prophet; but
I predict that that will be the most popular of your compositions.
It has all the elements of life, and a long life, in it. Once more,
please!”
They sang it with a will:
    “My days are gliding quickly by,
       And I, a pilgrim stranger,
     Would not detain them as they fly,
       Those hours of toil and danger.
     For, oh, we stand on Jordan’s strand,
       Our friends are passing over:
     And just before, The Shining Shore,
            We may almost discover.”
Millions have sung it since. Millions more will yield heart, soul, and
voice to the bound and swing and exultant leap of the melody “thought
out” by the composer in the earliest reading of the anonymous verses.
“Almost” has been “quite” with him for many a year.
It was during that Christmas week that I attended a full rehearsal of
the programme to be given at the grand concert. Near the close of the
rehearsal, Mr. Root came down to the back of the house and dropped
into a seat by me, among the auditors and lookers-on. He was tired, he
explained, “and would loaf for the rest of the affair.” The “affair”
wound up with Handel’s Hallelujah Chorus. My “loafing” neighbor pricked
up his ears, as the war-horse at sound of the trumpet; sat upright and
poured the might of heart and voice into the immortal opus. With the
precision of a metronome, and the fire of a seraph, he went through it,
from the first to the last note, with never a book or score. It was
more to us, who had the good fortune to be near him, than all the rest
of the performance.
It was inevitable that two of us should recall and speak together in
awed tones, of Handel’s rejoinder to a query, as to his emotions in
writing the Chorus:
“I did verily believe that I saw the Great White Throne and Him Who sat
thereon, and heard the harpers harping with their harps, and all God’s
holy angels.”
I was watching the fine, uplifted head and rapt unconsciousness of him
whose whole frame throbbed and thrilled with clarion tones that pealed
out, “Hallelujah! hallelujah!” when a voice on the other side of me
murmured in my ear:
“And all that sat there, steadfastly watching him, saw his face as it
had been the face of an angel.”
I cherish a hundred pleasant and dear memories of our musical visitor.
I like none other so well as this vision. It so befell that my one and
only visit to the grave of Oliver Goldsmith was made when the choir
of the adjacent Temple church was practising the Hallelujah Chorus.
Although in the heart of mighty London, the place was strangely still
and solitary. We lingered there until the last chord died into silence.
It was not necessary for either of us to put into words what held the
fancy of both. Only—as we turned away we looked up to the sky, and one
whispered, “He is singing it, still!”
Engagements of marriage were never announced in Old Virginia. We took
more pains to keep them secret than family and friends take nowadays to
trumpet them abroad. Mr. Derby ran on from New York to spend Christmas
and the next day with us. He came and departed without an intimation
of any change in the feelings and prospects of his last September
guest. Mr. Terhune went back to his Charlotte parish; letters travelled
regularly and frequently back and forth. Some were addressed to me;
more bore my brother’s name on the envelope, to hoodwink village
post-office gossips. Young men, who were habitual visitors, called as
often and were received with the olden friendliness; I accepted the
escort of this, that, and the other one impartially, and at will. “The
Young Evangelist” was in town for a few days of every month, and was
more with us than anywhere else. And why not? He had visited us more
intimately than at any other house during his six months’ occupancy of
Doctor Hoge’s pulpit. It happened repeatedly that he was one of three
or four callers in the evening. On these occasions he, magnanimously,
as he phrased it, “never interfered with another fellow’s running.” He
was as assiduous in his attentions to girls who chanced to be present
as Ned Rhodes, Tom Baxter, or any other Tom, Dick, or Harry of the
party could be to me. At ten o’clock he arose, made his adieux in
decorous sort to the ladies of the house and to the company generally,
and withdrew. If nobody showed a disposition to follow his example,
he, to quote again from his tactics, “took account of stock,” and,
having assured himself that the others lived in different directions,
appeared in the open door, overcoat on, hat in hand, and in his mouth a
jaunty query as to the probability of having company in his walk to the
Exchange Hotel, where he usually put up. Few were bold enough to loiter
later when the privileged habitué of the house showed so plainly that
the family kept early hours. After his regrets at the prospect of a
lonely tramp were uttered, he departed in good earnest. He had made but
a few rounds of the block when the shutters of the front parlor window
were closed, the signal that the course was clear for a return.
In mid-April he came to Richmond to receive his widowed sister, who
passed some weeks with us. Mea and I had had an engagement with Messrs.
Rhodes and Baxter to go to a Dempster concert. The pair were so often
on escort duty that they were dubbed “The Circumstances” by our saucy
brothers and sisters. It was, according to the younglings, a settled
matter, when we based our prospective presence at any festive scene
upon “circumstances,” that Damon and his Pythias should show up in
season to take us thither.
Mrs. Greenleaf arrived on Tuesday. Her brother came by the noon train
on Wednesday. It was not until I noted the grave wonder in her blue
eyes, as I congratulated her and him that they would have the evening
to themselves and home-talk, that it dawned upon me how unconventional
was the proceeding altogether. North of Mason and Dixon’s line it would
have been downright impropriety for an engaged girl to walk off coolly,
in the escort of another man, within a few hours after the coming of
the betrothed whom she had not seen for a month.
The person who would be supposed to suffer most discomfort from the
outrage to conventionality was, fortunately, more au fait to
Virginia manners and social usages than his relative. When I took an
opportunity to express misgivings lest I might lose ground in her good
graces if I kept the engagement to hear the famous ballad-singer, I was
bidden not to “waste a thought on that matter, but to enjoy the concert
with all my heart. For his part, he was delighted that I had the chance
to go.”
So, when our escorts appeared, I carried off a light heart, and was
obedient to the injunction to get all the enjoyment that Dempster, then
evidently in the decadence of his powers, could give a music-lover.
I heard him but that once. I do not regret that I went then, although
sadness mingled with pleasure while we listened. Dempster’s rendition
of English ballads, without other accompaniment than the piano played
by himself, with no effort after brilliancy of execution, had moved two
continents to smiles and tears. One searches vainly for his name in
cyclopædias and dictionary lists of the famous dead. He was now a gray
and flabby oldish man. His voice was broken in the high register, and
thickened on the lower; his breath was irregular and short. Yet certain
passages—notably in the Irish Emigrant’s Lament—had sympathetic
sweetness that helped one to credit the stories of his former
successes. He sang Tennyson’s May Queen all through, not skipping
a stanza of the three parts. It was a dreary performance, that grew
absolutely painful before the consumptive was finally relegated to the
bourne
    “Where the wicked cease from troubling,
      And the weary are at rest.”
“Thank Heaven!” sighed Mr. Rhodes as the last word quavered forth; and
Mea—“She ought to apologize for being such an unconscionably long time
in dying.”
XXXI
WEDDING BELLS—A BRIDAL TOUR—A DISCOVERED RELATIVE—A NOBLE LIFE
                              “RICHMOND, August 16th, 1856.
    “MY VERY DEAR EFFIE,—My long silence has seemed strange
    and may have appeared unkind to you, but there have been a
    thousand hindrances to my writing.
    “A sudden fit of illness interrupted the health that had
    remained firm throughout the warm spring weather, and
    obliged me to make my visit to Goochland earlier than I
    intended. For a week or more after my arrival there I was
    worse than I had been at home. When I began to recover, the
    amendment was rapid.
    “To cut short these details, I am most unromantically
    well and robust, am gaining flesh daily, and boast an
    appetite that would throw a sentimental young woman into
    convulsions were she to witness my gastronomic exploits. Yet
    I have delayed writing to you because I wished to arrange
    everything relating to the final ‘performances’ before
    notifying you of the same.
    “There have been sundry alterations in the programme since
    you and I last consulted over these things, the principal
    of which is the change of the day and hour. We expect,
    now, to leave home on Tuesday fortnight (September 2d) in
    the morning, instead of (as was first spoken of) on the
    afternoon of Wednesday, the 3d. This will allow us two days
    in Philadelphia, and, being the plan most approved of by
    father and Mr. Terhune, of course I am submissive.
    “The bridal party will spend both Monday and Tuesday
    evenings, besides breakfasting here on Tuesday morning. So
    you girls may bring evening dresses.
    “The bridesmaids are to wear blue muslin or lawn skirts,
    with white muslin basques—a neat breakfast costume that
    will look pretty as a uniform, and be becoming to all of
    you, without throwing my quiet travelling attire too much
    into the shade. You know that at a morning wedding it is
    customary for each to dress as she pleases. This never
    pleased my fancy. The company wears a motley look. Full
    bridal robes would be equally out of place. Therefore, we
    have selected this medium.
    “Now, ma chère! cannot you keep your intention of the
    Richmond trip as profound a secret as you have other matters
    we wot of? Your father and mother must be apprized of it,
    and Colonel and Mrs. Graves; but, for a few days, cannot the
    story be kept within the two families? I trust you to do
    this for me.
    “The Charlotte party will come down on Monday, the 1st.
    We shall expect you and Virginia some days in advance of
    that date. I hope to have everything in readiness, even to
    packing my trunks, by the middle of the preceding week, and
    to have time to enjoy your society. Write as soon as your
    plans are formed, and let that time be very soon. As to my
    trousseau—thanks to nimble and kind fingers, the work is
    nearly done. Next week my time is to be divided between the
    dressmaker and a gentleman who writes that he has ‘business
    to attend to in Richmond,’ and who, it is fair to presume,
    may call occasionally. The latest gossip is that there is to
    be a double wedding here next month; that both sisters are
    to be dressed precisely alike and be married in the evening.
    Therefore, come prepared for the worst—or the best, as the
    case may seem.
    “To drop business and jesting together—it is very hard to
    realize that, if Providence permit, one little fortnight
    will bring such a change into my life. Here, in the home
    of my girlhood, where all else is unaltered, and I seem to
    be welded, as it were, into the household chain, I cannot
    believe that my place is so soon to be vacant. Brain and
    heart are so full of crowding thoughts and emotions that I
    marvel how I preserve a composed demeanor. The past, with
    its tender and hallowed memories; the present, with a
    wealth of calm, real happiness; the bright, although vague
    future, alike strive to enchain my mind.
    “I long to see you; to have a good, old-fashioned chat, a
    familiar interchange of our plans and our hopes. There is a
    sentence in your last that promises much—a promise I shall
    surely call upon you to redeem when we meet. I would have
    you feel that by this union you gain, not lose a friend....
    “My love to your mother and to ‘Cousin Mag.’ May I not ask
    from them a sincere ‘God-speed’?
    “You will not disappoint me, now, dear one? Write at once
    that you are all coming. You and Virginia G. will require
    little preparation—besides the blue skirt and the thin
    muslin spencer (which you are sure to have!), a pair of
    white gloves will be all you need.
    “This is a hasty and, I fear, an incoherent letter, but a
    full freight of love goes with it. As I began, I end with
    ‘COME!’”
As may be gathered from this letter, the wedding was to be a simple
affair—so quiet that it could not be called a social function.
We were of one mind on that point. To secure the presence of our most
intimate friends, we went through the form of selecting bridesmaids
and groomsmen. It was the custom to have a long train of attendants at
large wedding-parties, and we took advantage of the fashion to limit
the company to be assembled on that early September morning to “the
bridal party” and the family. The exceptions to the limit were dear old
Doctor Haxall (whose wife was out of town) and three friends of the
bridegroom. Two were from New Jersey and family connections, although
not related by blood. The other was Mr. Word, of Charlotte, the
gentlest-hearted of old bachelors—known affectionately by his intimates
as “Cousin Jimmy.”
Genial old saint! My heart swells now at the flashlight picture
fastened upon memory of my first sight of, and speech with him. He was
more closely shaven than I ever saw him afterward—and he was ever the
pink of neatness. An expanse of white vest and shirt-bosom covered a
broad chest that palpitated visibly, as, enfolding my hand in both of
his, he said, in the best manner of the gentleman of the old school
(and there are no finer gentlemen anywhere):
“My dear madam, let me entreat you to regard me from this moment as a
BROTHER!”
No capitals can endow the word with the meaning he put into it. He
fulfilled his part of the compact nobly.
To go back to the preparation for the quiet bridal: A Richmond fashion
I have never known elsewhere, and which outlasted the war by some
years, was that the bride-elect and two or three of her bridesmaids
drove from house to house a day, or two or three, before the marriage,
and left cards upon acquaintances who were not bidden to the ceremony.
This was done in cases where, as with me, it was to be a house-wedding,
and the attendants were confined to a few family friends. If there were
to be a church-wedding, followed by a reception, or if the ceremony
at home were to be witnessed by a large party of guests, the drive
and delivery of cards preceded the “occasion” by a week or ten days.
To send an invitation to any social gathering by post would be a
transgression of decorum and precedent—a cheap trick unworthy of any
one tolerably well versed in social forms. The delivery by the bride
and her suite was delicately complimentary to those she wished to honor.
In furtherance of our design of keeping even the date of the marriage
secret up to the last possible hour, we had delayed the delivery of my
“P. P. C.” cards until Monday.
At the very bottom of the box of time-discolored letters preserved by
the friend of my childhood and intimate of my girlhood, I found one
of these cards. Time’s thumbmarks have not spared the bit of glazed
pasteboard. My maiden name is there, and, in the left-hand lower
corner, “P. P. C.” That was all the information it deigned to give the
curious and the friendly. I was going away—somewhere. Just when and
where was nobody’s business.
It will hardly be believed that we kept our own counsel so well that
our own servants, while they might have their suspicions, were only
certain that I was going North on Tuesday, as I had often gone on other
summers, and that the girls who had been visiting me for a week were to
remain to a party my sister would give on Tuesday evening. Not until
Monday morning were any of them, except “Mammy Rachel,” informed what
was on foot.
The day dawned—if dawn it could be called—through steady sheets of
rain. No delusive adage of “Rain before seven, clear before eleven”
ever gained currency in Richmond. It was as clear to our dismayed souls
that this was an all-day rain, as that the drive and cards could not
be postponed until to-morrow. Sampson, the carriage-driver, whom we
did not dub “coachman” until after the war, was notified by the mouth
of Tom, the young dining-room servant, that he must have the carriage
at the door at ten o’clock, and prepare for a long expedition. We were
at the breakfast-table when word came back that “it warn’t a fittin’
day for no young ladies to go out. Nor for his carriage an’ horses. De
ladies will have to put off their shoppin’ for another time.”
Mea turned upon the respectful emissary with the snap of the eyes and
incisive accent he knew full well:
“Say to Sampson that Miss Virginia is to be married to-morrow, and that
we have to take out cards. He will be here on time!”
We had an answer before we left our chairs.
“Yes, ma’am! He says he’d go if it killed him and the horses!”
We set forth at the appointed hour. Mea, Effie, Virginia Graves, and
myself, wrapped up as for a winter journey, but in as high spirits as
if the sun had shone and birds sung blithely in trees that shivered
and shrank and streamed under the weight of the bitter rain. Poor
Tom—for the nonce, the footman whose duty it was to jump down from
his perch at every door before which we signalled Sampson to stop, to
receive the enveloped card upon a silver tray, and to scamper up a
walk or up a flight of steps, his umbrella held low over the precious
consignment—had the worst of it all. He was soaked to the skin by the
time the route was finished and we turned homeward. We were out four
hours. And in all the four hours the rain never intermitted one drop,
and the wind only changed from the east to blow from all quarters of
the heavens at once. If coachman and patient footman were drenched, we
were more than moist, and so chilled that we rejoiced with exceeding
great joy at the sight of blazing fires in chambers and dining-room on
our return.
The home atmosphere was all that it should be on the eve of the first
wedding in a household where the happiness of one was the joy of all.
Maybe I took it too much as a matter of course, then. I value the
recollection with something akin to jealous fondness. How, all day
long, while the skies streamed without and the wind dashed the water
by pailfuls against the windows, mirth and frolic within went on like
a peal of joy-bells, and every look, gesture, and word carried to my
heart the sweet persuasion that I was not absent from the thoughts of
one of them for a moment.
So certain were we that nothing could “gang agley”—and this in the
teeth of the storm that had abated naught of its fury by nightfall—that
when Herbert, who had gone to the station to meet the Charlotte party
(including Doctor Hoge, who was returning from his vacation), brought
back a rueful countenance and the news that “the flood had washed away
a bridge on the Danville Railway and made it impracticable for trains
to run for twenty-four hours,” we fell upon him with a hail-storm of
laughing reproaches that swept away the pretence of sorrowful sympathy.
How could anything go wrong? Not one of us was hoaxed for the fraction
of a second.
We took for granted, with the like gay confidence, that the tempest
would rage itself faint by morning. It was no surprise that the day
was so brilliantly clear, so fresh and fragrant, that Doctor Hoge was
reminded of
    “The rose that was newly washed by the shower”—
and, after the ceremony, strayed from one to another of the thirty
present, asking if any one could tell him who was the author of the
line.
Which quest, when comparison of notes elicited the fact that ten
persons had been catechised, took a place among our family jests.
One incident of the journey to Washington stands out in my mind among
the thousand and one “coincidences,” falsely so-called, that star or
mar every human life, if we will but heed them and their consequences.
Mr. Terhune, and Mr. Cardwell, one of the groomsmen, who went as far as
Baltimore with us, on his way to speak at a political meeting, had gone
to look to the luggage after settling me in the car in Richmond. The
air was close, and I tried to raise the window by me.
“Allow me!” said a pleasant voice in my ear, and a strong hand reached
forward to perform the trifling service.
I said, over my shoulder, “Thank you!” catching sight of a fine, manly
face, lighted by a pair of kind, gray eyes. I saw the shadow of the
hand that went up to his hat, as he uttered some conventional phrase
in acknowledgment, and thought no more of him until we had taken the
Potomac boat at Acquia Creek. I recognized my neighbor of the train
then, in the tall man who tramped the deck to stretch long limbs
cramped by sitting in the car, and checked his walk to pick up and
comfort a child that fell headlong in running away from its nurse. I
was struck by the gentleness of the handsome giant in handling the
baby, and the tact he displayed in taking the weeper in his arms, and
directing his attention to a passing steamer. The little fellow stopped
crying at once, and, when the frightened nurse found the runaway, he
clung to the stranger’s neck, much to the amusement of the latter. He
carried him to the far end of the boat, talking cheerily with him, and
finally handed him over to the woman, with a kiss upon the baby-lips
held up to him.
The call to dinner diverted my mind from the little scene, and it was
not until we were in our hotel in Washington that I alluded to it, and
told Mr. Terhune of the courtesy the stranger had rendered me on the
train.
“I wish you had mentioned it before,” he said. “I should have thanked
him. I saw him at the hotel last night. His name is Brookes, I think.
He is a cousin of Doctor Hoge. By-the-way, he must be related to your
mother. And”—laughingly—“naturally, to yourself.”
“Of course!” I broke in, excitedly. “I wish I had guessed who he was.
It must be the Rev. James Brookes, my mother’s cousin. You needn’t
laugh! and you must not say ‘Another?’ He is a splendid fellow. His
mother was Judith Lacy, and named for my grandmother!”
As the genealogist of the family, I reckoned up the “handsome giant”
forthwith. I even knew incidents of his family history he never heard
until I rehearsed them to him in his St. Louis home, thirty years
afterward. He was, by then, to me the best-belovéd of all my clerical
kinsmen. I upbraided him, when we were made known to one another, for
not letting me know who he was at our first encounter.
“My dear cousin! On your wedding-day!” was his exclamation. “Even the
tie of kindred blood would not have justified the intermeddling of a
stranger at that time.”
We made up for the delay of a quarter-century by full and glad
recognition of the blood-claim. He was a master in Israel; eloquent
in the pulpit; as a writer, strong and convincing; in parish
ministrations, as tender as a woman and helpful as a brother. He
adorned his profession; as a citizen he fought evil with a lion’s
strength, and succored the erring with the wisdom of Paul, the
gentleness of John.
What strength and comfort I drew from intimate association with this
wise, tender, and leal kinsman, may not be told here. I can never
acknowledge it aright until I speak with the tongue of angels.
More than a dozen years have passed since the Easter noon, when the
lightning leaped along a thousand miles of telegraph lines, to bring me
this message from his son-in-law:
    “James H. Brookes fell asleep at sunrise on Easter
    morning.”
Since that glorious awakening he has dwelt forever with the Lord.
XXXII
    PARSONAGE LIFE—WILLIAM WIRT HENRY—HISTORIC SOIL—JOHN
    RANDOLPH—THE LAST OF THE RANDOLPHS
THE village of Charlotte Court-House was a rambling hamlet in 1856.
The plank-road from the nearest railway station (“Drake’s Branch”)
entered the village at one side, and cut abruptly into the main street.
This thoroughfare meandered leisurely from a country road at each end,
through the entire length of the shiretown. It was lined irregularly
with public and private buildings. The Court House, three or four
stores, a couple of hotels, and perhaps half a dozen residences, made
up the nucleus of the place. Beyond, and on either side, dwellings—some
of brick, some of wood—were surrounded by spacious grounds embracing
shrubbery, plantations, groves, and gardens. The “Village Church,”
a brick edifice hoary with years, and redolent of ecclesiastical
traditions, stood at the left of the plank turnpike as one approached
the village from the station. A porticoed manor-house, that had a
history almost as old, faced it across lawn and shrubbery on the
opposite side of the way. When one had left the turnpike for the main
street, and driven a quarter of a mile or so toward the “real country,”
one passed the Parsonage. It stood well away from the street, from
which it was screened by a grove of native oaks. Behind it lay a large
yard, at one side of which were the kitchen and other domestic offices.
A picket fence divided the yard from a garden, and at the left of this
were the stables and pasture. Back of the garden a field lost itself
in a wood of virgin growth.
The house was a white cottage, a story-and-a-half high, fronted and
backed by wide porches. A hall cut the lower floor in half, and ran
from the entrance to the back door. On the left of the hall was a
parlor of fair dimensions, with windows at the front and rear. “The
chamber,” of like shape and proportions, was on the other side. The
dining-room was one wing, and “the study” another. Both connected
directly with a deep portico which filled the intermediate space. Two
bedrooms above stairs, and a store-room adjoining the dining-room,
completed the tale of rooms.
A modest establishment in very truth, but not contemptible from the Old
Virginia standpoint. Small as it was, we did not have it to ourselves
until after Christmas. I esteemed this a fortunate circumstance from
the first, considering how much I had to learn of housekeeping and
parish work. Subsequently, I knew it for one of the signal blessings of
a life that has been affluent in goodness and mercy.
For the occupants of the Parsonage, pending the completion of a house
of their own in building at the other end of the village, were Mr. and
Mrs. Wirt Henry, a young married couple with one child. They had rented
the cottage for the year ending January 1st, and kindly consented to
receive us as boarders until the term had expired.
From the moment that Wirt Henry came out to assist me to alight from
the carriage that had brought us from the station, one mid-October day,
to the end of his honored and useful life, his friendship for us knew
no variableness nor shadow of turning. He was already my husband’s
staunch right hand in church and community. He took me upon trust for
the time. I learned to love husband and wife long before we became
separate households. To this day, his widow is to me as a sister.
In the care-free three months of our happy companionship, Mrs. Henry
helped me tactfully through the initial stages of acquaintanceship with
parish and neighborhood. To the manor born, and connected by blood with
