fondness for them any better than I can explain a hundred of the other
vague infatuations with which Venice sophisticates the spirit. Under
such an influence fortunately one need n’t explain--it keeps account
of nothing but perceptions and affections. It is from the Salute steps
perhaps, of a summer morning, that this view of the open mouth of
the city is most brilliantly amusing. The whole thing composes as if
composition were the chief end of human institutions. The charming
architectural promontory of the Dogana stretches out the most graceful
of arms, balancing in its hand the gilded globe on which revolves the
delightful satirical figure of a little weathercock of a woman. This
Fortune, this Navigation, or whatever she is called--she surely needs no
name--catches the wind in the bit of drapery of which she has divested
her rotary bronze loveliness. On the other side of the Canal twinkles
and glitters the long row of the happy palaces which are mainly
expensive hotels. There is a little of everything everywhere, in
the bright Venetian air, but to these houses belongs especially the
appearance of sitting, across the water, at the receipt of custom,
of watching in their hypocritical loveliness for the stranger and the
victim. I call them happy, because even their sordid uses and their
vulgar signs melt somehow, with their vague sea-stained pinks and drabs,
into that strange gaiety of light and colour which is made up of the
reflection of superannuated things. The atmosphere plays over them like
a laugh, they are of the essence of the sad old joke. They are almost
as charming from other places as they are from their own balconies,
and share fully in that universal privilege of Venetian objects which
consists of being both the picture and the point of view.
This double character, which is particularly strong in the Grand Canal,
adds a difficulty to any control of one’s notes. The Grand Canal may
be practically, as in impression, the cushioned balcony of a high and
well-loved palace--the memory of irresistible evenings, of the
sociable elbow, of endless lingering and looking; or it may evoke the
restlessness of a fresh curiosity, of methodical inquiry, in a gondola
piled with references. There are no references, I ought to mention, in
the present remarks, which sacrifice to accident, not to completeness.
A rhapsody of Venice is always in order, but I think the catalogues
are finished. I should not attempt to write here the names of all the
palaces, even if the number of those I find myself able to remember in
the immense array were less insignificant. There are many I delight in
that I don’t know, or at least don’t keep, apart. Then there are the bad
reasons for preference that are better than the good, and all the sweet
bribery of association and recollection. These things, as one stands on
the Salute steps, are so many delicate fingers to pick straight out
of the row a dear little featureless house which, with its pale green
shutters, looks straight across at the great door and through the
very keyhole, as it were, of the church, and which I needn’t call by
a name--a pleasant American name--that every one in Venice, these many
years, has had on grateful lips. It is the very friendliest house in all
the wide world, and it has, as it deserves to have, the most beautiful
position. It is a real porto di mare, as the gondoliers say--a port
within a port; it sees everything that comes and goes, and takes it all
in with practised eyes. Not a tint or a hint of the immense iridescence
is lost upon it, and there are days of exquisite colour on which it may
fancy itself the heart of the wonderful prism. We wave to it from the
Salute steps, which we must decidedly leave if we wish to get on, a
grateful hand across the water, and turn into the big white church of
Longhena--an empty shaft beneath a perfunctory dome--where an American
family and a German party, huddled in a corner upon a pair of benches,
are gazing, with a conscientiousness worthy of a better cause, at
nothing in particular.
For there is nothing particular in this cold and conventional temple to
gaze at save the great Tintoretto of the sacristy, to which we quickly
pay our respects, and which we are glad to have for ten minutes to
ourselves. The picture, though full of beauty, is not the finest of the
master’s; but it serves again as well as another to transport--there
is no other word--those of his lovers for whom, in far-away days when
Venice was an early rapture, this strange and mystifying painter was
almost the supreme revelation. The plastic arts may have less to say
to us than in the hungry years of youth, and the celebrated picture in
general be more of a blank; but more than the others any fine Tintoret
still carries us back, calling up not only the rich particular vision
but the freshness of the old wonder. Many things come and go, but this
great artist remains for us in Venice a part of the company of the mind.
The others are there in their obvious glory, but he is the only one for
whom the imagination, in our expressive modern phrase, sits up. “The
Marriage in Cana,” at the Salute, has all his characteristic and
fascinating unexpectedness--the sacrifice of the figure of our Lord,
who is reduced to the mere final point of a clever perspective, and the
free, joyous presentation of all the other elements of the feast.
Why, in spite of this queer one-sidedness, does the picture give us no
impression of a lack of what the critics call reverence? For no other
reason that I can think of than because it happens to be the work of its
author, in whose very mistakes there is a singular wisdom. Mr. Ruskin
has spoken with sufficient eloquence of the serious loveliness of the
row of heads of the women on the right, who talk to each other as they
sit at the foreshortened banquet. There could be no better example
of the roving independence of the painter’s vision, a real spirit of
adventure for which his subject was always a cluster of accidents; not
an obvious order, but a sort of peopled and agitated chapter of life,
in which the figures are submissive pictorial notes. These notes are all
there in their beauty and heterogeneity, and if the abundance is of a
kind to make the principle of selection seem in comparison timid,
yet the sense of “composition” in the spectator--if it happen to
exist--reaches out to the painter in peculiar sympathy. Dull must be the
spirit of the worker tormented in any field of art with that particular
question who is not moved to recognise in the eternal problem the high
fellowship of Tintoretto.
If the long reach from this point to the deplorable iron bridge which
discharges the pedestrian at the Academy--or, more comprehensively, to
the painted and gilded Gothic of the noble Palazzo Foscari--is too much
of a curve to be seen at any one point as a whole, it represents the
better the arched neck, as it were, of the undulating serpent of which
the Canalazzo has the likeness. We pass a dozen historic houses, we note
in our passage a hundred component “bits,” with the baffled sketcher’s
sense, and with what would doubtless be, save for our intensely Venetian
fatalism, the baffled sketcher’s temper. It is the early palaces, of
course, and also, to be fair, some of the late, if we could take them
one by one, that give the Canal the best of its grand air. The fairest
are often cheek-by-jowl with the foulest, and there are few, alas, so
fair as to have been completely protected by their beauty. The ages and
the generations have worked their will on them, and the wind and the
weather have had much to say; but disfigured and dishonoured as they
are, with the bruises of their marbles and the patience of their ruin,
there is nothing like them in the world, and the long succession of
their faded, conscious faces makes of the quiet waterway they overhang
a promenade historique of which the lesson, however often we read it,
gives, in the depth of its interest, an incomparable dignity to Venice.
We read it in the Romanesque arches, crooked to-day in their very
curves, of the early middle-age, in the exquisite individual Gothic of
the splendid time, and in the cornices and columns of a decadence almost
as proud. These things at present are almost equally touching in their
good faith; they have each in their degree so effectually parted with
their pride. They have lived on as they could and lasted as they might,
and we hold them to no account of their infirmities, for even those of
them whose blank eyes to-day meet criticism with most submission are far
less vulgar than the uses we have mainly managed to put them to. We have
botched them and patched them and covered them with sordid signs; we
have restored and improved them with a merciless taste, and the best of
them we have made over to the pedlars. Some of the most striking objects
in the finest vistas at present are the huge advertisements of the
curiosity-shops.
The antiquity-mongers in Venice have all the courage of their opinion,
and it is easy to see how well they know they can confound you with an
unanswerable question. What is the whole place but a curiosity-shop, and
what are you here for yourself but to pick up odds and ends? “We pick
them up for you,” say these honest Jews, whose prices are marked
in dollars, “and who shall blame us if, the flowers being pretty well
plucked, we add an artificial rose or two to the composition of the
bouquet?” They take care, in a word, that there be plenty of relics, and
their establishments are huge and active. They administer the antidote
to pedantry, and you can complain of them only if you never cross their
thresholds. If you take this step you are lost, for you have parted with
the correctness of your attitude. Venice becomes frankly from such a
moment the big depressing dazzling joke in which after all our sense
of her contradictions sinks to rest--the grimace of an over-strained
philosophy. It’s rather a comfort, for the curiosity-shops are amusing.
You have bad moments indeed as you stand in their halls of humbug and,
in the intervals of haggling, hear through the high windows the soft
splash of the sea on the old water-steps, for you think with anger of
the noble homes that are laid waste in such scenes, of the delicate
lives that must have been, that might still be, led there. You
reconstruct the admirable house according to your own needs; leaning on
a back balcony, you drop your eyes into one of the little green gardens
with which, for the most part, such establishments are exasperatingly
blessed, and end by feeling it a shame that you yourself are not in
possession. (I take for granted, of course, that as you go and come you
are, in imagination, perpetually lodging yourself and setting up your
gods; for if this innocent pastime, this borrowing of the mind, be not
your favourite sport there is a flaw in the appeal that Venice makes
to you.) There may be happy cases in which your envy is tempered, or
perhaps I should rather say intensified, by real participation. If you
have had the good fortune to enjoy the hospitality of an old Venetian
home and to lead your life a little in the painted chambers that still
echo with one of the historic names, you have entered by the shortest
step into the inner spirit of the place. If it did n’t savour of
treachery to private kindness I should like to speak frankly of one of
these delightful, even though alienated, structures, to refer to it as
a splendid example of the old palatial type. But I can only do so in
passing, with a hundred precautions, and, lifting the curtain at the
edge, drop a commemorative word on the success with which, in this
particularly happy instance, the cosmopolite habit, the modern sympathy,
the intelligent, flexible attitude, the latest fruit of time, adjust
themselves to the great gilded, relinquished shell and try to fill it
out. A Venetian palace that has not too grossly suffered and that is not
overwhelming by its mass makes almost any life graceful that may be
led in it. With cultivated and generous contemporary ways it reveals a
pre-established harmony. As you live in it day after day its beauty and
its interest sink more deeply into your spirit; it has its moods and
its hours and its mystic voices and its shifting expressions. If in
the absence of its masters you have happened to have it to yourself
for twenty-four hours you will never forget the charm of its haunted
stillness, late on the summer afternoon for instance, when the call of
playing children comes in behind from the campo, nor the way the old
ghosts seemed to pass on tip-toe on the marble floors. It gives you
practically the essence of the matter that we are considering, for
beneath the high balconies Venice comes and goes, and the particular
stretch you command contains all the characteristics. Everything has its
turn, from the heavy barges of merchandise, pushed by long poles and the
patient shoulder, to the floating pavilions of the great serenades, and
you may study at your leisure the admirable Venetian arts of managing a
boat and organising a spectacle. Of the beautiful free stroke with which
the gondola, especially when there are two oars, is impelled, you never,
in the Venetian scene, grow weary; it is always in the picture, and the
large profiled action that lets the standing rowers throw themselves
forward to a constant recovery has the double value of being, at the
fag-end of greatness, the only energetic note. The people from the
hotels are always afloat, and, at the hotel pace, the solitary gondolier
(like the solitary horseman of the old-fashioned novel) is, I confess,
a somewhat melancholy figure. Perched on his poop without a mate, he
re-enacts perpetually, in high relief, with his toes turned out, the
comedy of his odd and charming movement. He always has a little the
look of an absent-minded nursery-maid pushing her small charges in a
perambulator.
But why should I risk too free a comparison, where this picturesque and
amiable class are concerned? I delight in their sun-burnt complexions
and their childish dialect; I know them only by their merits, and I am
grossly prejudiced in their favour. They are interesting and touching,
and alike in their virtues and their defects human nature is simplified
as with a big effective brush. Affecting above all is their dependence
on the stranger, the whimsical stranger who swims out of their ken, yet
whom Providence sometimes restores. The best of them at any rate are
in their line great artists. On the swarming feast-days, on the strange
feast-night of the Redentore, their steering is a miracle of ease. The
master-hands, the celebrities and winners of prizes--you may see them
on the private gondolas in spotless white, with brilliant sashes and
ribbons, and often with very handsome persons--take the right of way
with a pardonable insolence. They penetrate the crush of boats with
an authority of their own. The crush of boats, the universal sociable
bumping and squeezing, is great when, on the summer nights, the ladies
shriek with alarm, the city pays the fiddlers, and the illuminated
barges, scattering music and song, lead a long train down the Canal. The
barges used to be rowed in rhythmic strokes, but now they are towed by
the steamer. The coloured lamps, the vocalists before the hotels, are
not to my sense the greatest seduction of Venice; but it would be
an uncandid sketch of the Canalazzo that shouldn’t touch them with
indulgence. Taking one nuisance with another, they are probably the
prettiest in the world, and if they have in general more magic for the
new arrival than for the old Venice-lover, they in any case, at their
best, keep up the immemorial tradition. The Venetians have had from the
beginning of time the pride of their processions and spectacles, and
it’s a wonder how with empty pockets they still make a clever show. The
Carnival is dead, but these are the scraps of its inheritance. Vauxhall
on the water is of course more Vauxhall than ever, with the good fortune
of home-made music and of a mirror that reduplicates and multiplies.
The feast of the Redeemer--the great popular feast of the year--is a
wonderful Venetian Vauxhall. All Venice on this occasion takes to the
boats for the night and loads them with lamps and provisions. Wedged
together in a mass it sups and sings; every boat is a floating arbour,
a private café-concert. Of all Christian commemorations it is the most
ingenuously and harmlessly pagan. Toward morning the passengers repair
to the Lido, where, as the sun rises, they plunge, still sociably, into
the sea. The night of the Redentore has been described, but it would be
interesting to have an account, from the domestic point of view, of its
usual morrow. It is mainly an affair of the Giudecca, however, which is
bridged over from the Zattere to the great church. The pontoons are laid
together during the day--it is all done with extraordinary celerity and
art--and the bridge is prolonged across the Canalazzo (to Santa Maria
Zobenigo), which is my only warrant for glancing at the occasion. We
glance at it from our palace windows; lengthening our necks a little, as
we look up toward the Salute, we see all Venice, on the July afternoon,
so serried as to move slowly, pour across the temporary footway. It is
a flock of very good children, and the bridged Canal is their toy. All
Venice on such occasions is gentle and friendly; not even all Venice
pushes anyone into the water.
But from the same high windows we catch without any stretching of the
neck a still more indispensable note in the picture, a famous pretender
eating the bread of bitterness. This repast is served in the open air,
on a neat little terrace, by attendants in livery, and there is no
indiscretion in our seeing that the pretender dines. Ever since the
table d’hôte in “Candide” Venice has been the refuge of monarchs in want
of thrones--she would n’t know herself without her rois en exil. The
exile is agreeable and soothing, the gondola lets them down gently. Its
movement is an anodyne, its silence a philtre, and little by little it
rocks all ambitions to sleep. The proscript has plenty of leisure to
write his proclamations and even his memoirs, and I believe he has
organs in which they are published; but the only noise he makes in the
world is the harmless splash of his oars. He comes and goes along the
Canalazzo, and he might be much worse employed. He is but one of the
interesting objects it presents, however, and I am by no means sure
that he is the most striking. He has a rival, if not in the iron
bridge, which, alas, is within our range, at least--to take an immediate
example--in the Montecuculi Palace. Far-descended and weary, but
beautiful in its crooked old age, with its lovely proportions, its
delicate round arches, its carvings and its disks of marble, is the
haunted Montecuculi. Those who have a kindness for Venetian gossip like
to remember that it was once for a few months the property of Robert
Browning, who, however, never lived in it, and who died in the splendid
Rezzonico, the residence of his son and a wonderful cosmopolite
“document,” which, as it presents itself, in an admirable position, but
a short way farther down the Canal, we can almost see, in spite of the
curve, from the window at which we stand. This great seventeenth century
pile, throwing itself upon the water with a peculiar florid assurance,
a certain upward toss of its cornice which gives it the air of a rearing
sea-horse, decorates immensely--and within, as well as without--the wide
angle that it commands.
There is a more formal greatness in the high square Gothic Foscari,
just below it, one of the noblest creations of the fifteenth century,
a masterpiece of symmetry and majesty. Dedicated to-day to official
uses--it is the property of the State--it looks conscious of the
consideration it enjoys, and is one of the few great houses within our
range whose old age strikes us as robust and painless. It is visibly
“kept up”; perhaps it is kept up too much; perhaps I am wrong in
thinking so well of it. These doubts and fears course rapidly through my
mind--I am easily their victim when it is a question of architecture--as
they are apt to do to-day, in Italy, almost anywhere, in the presence
of the beautiful, of the desecrated or the neglected. We feel at such
moments as if the eye of Mr. Ruskin were upon us; we grow nervous and
lose our confidence. This makes me inevitably, in talking of Venice,
seek a pusillanimous safety in the trivial and the obvious. I am on
firm ground in rejoicing in the little garden directly opposite our
windows--it is another proof that they really show us everything--and in
feeling that the gardens of Venice would deserve a page to themselves.
They are infinitely more numerous than the arriving stranger can
suppose; they nestle with a charm all their own in the complications of
most back-views. Some of them are exquisite, many are large, and even
the scrappiest have an artful understanding, in the interest of colour,
with the waterways that edge their foundations. On the small canals,
in the hunt for amusement, they are the prettiest surprises of all.
The tangle of plants and flowers crowds over the battered walls, the
greenness makes an arrangement with the rosy sordid brick. Of all the
reflected and liquefied things in Venice, and the number of these is
countless, I think the lapping water loves them most. They are numerous
on the Canalazzo, but wherever they occur they give a brush to the
picture and in particular, it is easy to guess, give a sweetness to the
house. Then the elements are complete--the trio of air and water and of
things that grow. Venice without them would be too much a matter of the
tides and the stones. Even the little trellises of the traghetti count
charmingly as reminders, amid so much artifice, of the woodland nature
of man. The vine-leaves, trained on horizontal poles, make a roof
of chequered shade for the gondoliers and ferrymen, who doze there
according to opportunity, or chatter or hail the approaching “fare.”
 There is no “hum” in Venice, so that their voices travel far; they
enter your windows and mingle even with your dreams. I beg the reader
to believe that if I had time to go into everything, I would go into the
traghetti, which have their manners and their morals, and which
used to have their piety. This piety was always a madonnina, the
protectress of the passage--a quaint figure of the Virgin with the red
spark of a lamp at her feet. The lamps appear for the most part to have
gone out, and the images doubtless have been sold for bric-a-brac.
The ferrymen, for aught I know, are converted to Nihilism--a faith
consistent happily with a good stroke of business. One of the figures
has been left, however--the Madonnetta which gives its name to a
traghetto near the Rialto. But this sweet survivor is a carven stone
inserted ages ago in the corner of an old palace and doubtless difficult
of removal. Pazienza, the day will come when so marketable a relic
will also be extracted from its socket and purchased by the devouring
American. I leave that expression, on second thought, standing; but I
repent of it when I remember that it is a devouring American--a lady
long resident in Venice and whose kindnesses all Venetians, as well as
her country-people, know, who has rekindled some of the extinguished
tapers, setting up especially the big brave Gothic shrine, of painted
and gilded wood, which, on the top of its stout palo, sheds its
influence on the place of passage opposite the Salute.
If I may not go into those of the palaces this devious discourse has
left behind, much less may I enter the great galleries of the Academy,
which rears its blank wall, surmounted by the lion of St. Mark, well
within sight of the windows at which we are still lingering. This
wondrous temple of Venetian art--for all it promises little from
without--overhangs, in a manner, the Grand Canal, but if we were so much
as to cross its threshold we should wander beyond recall. It contains,
in some of the most magnificent halls--where the ceilings have all
the glory with which the imagination of Venice alone could over-arch a
room--some of the noblest pictures in the world; and whether or not
we go back to them on any particular occasion for another look, it is
always a comfort to know that they are there, as the sense of them on
the spot is a part of the furniture of the mind--the sense of them close
at hand, behind every wall and under every cover, like the inevitable
reverse of a medal, of the side exposed to the air that reflects,
intensifies, completes the scene. In other words, as it was the
inevitable destiny of Venice to be painted, and painted with passion, so
the wide world of picture becomes, as we live there, and however much we
go about our affairs, the constant habitation of our thoughts. The truth
is, we are in it so uninterruptedly, at home and abroad, that there
is scarcely a pressure upon us to seek it in one place more than in
another. Choose your standpoint at random and trust the picture to come
to you. This is manifestly why I have not, I find myself conscious, said
more about the features of the Canalazzo which occupy the reach between
the Salute and the position we have so obstinately taken up. It is
still there before us, however, and the delightful little Palazzo Dario,
intimately familiar to English and American travellers, picks itself out
in the foreshortened brightness. The Dario is covered with the loveliest
little marble plates and sculptured circles; it is made up of exquisite
pieces--as if there had been only enough to make it small--so that it
looks, in its extreme antiquity, a good deal like a house of cards that
hold together by a tenure it would be fatal to touch. An old Venetian
house dies hard indeed, and I should add that this delicate thing,
with submission in every feature, continues to resist the contact of
generations of lodgers. It is let out in floors (it used to be let as
a whole) and in how many eager hands--for it is in great
requisition--under how many fleeting dispensations have we not known and
loved it? People are always writing in advance to secure it, as they
are to secure the Jenkins’s gondolier, and as the gondola passes we
see strange faces at the windows--though it’s ten to one we recognise
them--and the millionth artist coming forth with his traps at the
water-gate. The poor little patient Dario is one of the most flourishing
booths at the fair.
The faces in the window look out at the great Sansovino--the splendid
pile that is now occupied by the Prefect. I feel decidedly that I
don’t object as I ought to the palaces of the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries. Their pretensions impose upon me, and the imagination peoples
them more freely than it can people the interiors of the prime. Was not
moreover this masterpiece of Sansovino once occupied by the Venetian
post-office, and thereby intimately connected with an ineffaceable first
impression of the author of these remarks? He had arrived, wondering,
palpitating, twenty-three years ago, after nightfall, and, the first
thing on the morrow, had repaired to the post-office for his letters.
They had been waiting a long time and were full of delayed interest, and
he returned with them to the gondola and floated slowly down the Canal.
The mixture, the rapture, the wonderful temple of the poste restante,
the beautiful strangeness, all humanised by good news--the memory of
this abides with him still, so that there always proceeds from the
splendid waterfront I speak of a certain secret appeal, something that
seems to have been uttered first in the sonorous chambers of youth. Of
course this association falls to the ground--or rather splashes into the
water--if I am the victim of a confusion. Was the edifice in question
twenty-three years ago the post-office, which has occupied since, for
many a day, very much humbler quarters? I am afraid to take the proper
steps for finding out, lest I should learn that during these years I
have misdirected my emotion. A better reason for the sentiment, at any
rate, is that such a great house has surely, in the high beauty of its
tiers, a refinement of its own. They make one think of colosseums and
aqueducts and bridges, and they constitute doubtless, in Venice, the
most pardonable specimen of the imitative. I have even a timid kindness
for the huge Pesaro, far down the Canal, whose main reproach, more even
than the coarseness of its forms, is its swaggering size, its want
of consideration for the general picture, which the early examples so
reverently respect. The Pesaro is as far out of the frame as a modern
hotel, and the Cornaro, close to it, oversteps almost equally the
modesty of art. One more thing they and their kindred do, I must add,
for which, unfortunately, we can patronise them less. They make even the
most elaborate material civilisation of the present day seem woefully
shrunken and bourgeois, for they simply--I allude to the biggest
palaces--can’t be lived in as they were intended to be. The modern
tenant may take in all the magazines, but he bends not the bow of
Achilles. He occupies the place, but he doesn’t fill it, and he has
guests from the neighbouring inns with ulsters and Baedekers. We are
far at the Pesaro, by the way, from our attaching window, and we take
advantage of it to go in rather a melancholy mood to the end. The long
straight vista from the Foscari to the Rialto, the great middle stretch
of the Canal, contains, as the phrase is, a hundred objects of interest,
but it contains most the bright oddity of its general Deluge air. In all
these centuries it has never got over its resemblance to a flooded city;
for some reason or other it is the only part of Venice in which the
houses look as if the waters had overtaken them. Everywhere else they
reckon with them--have chosen them; here alone the lapping seaway seems
to confess itself an accident.
{Illustration: PALAZZO MONCENIGO, VENICE}
There are persons who hold this long, gay, shabby, spotty perspective,
in which, with its immense field of confused reflection, the houses have
infinite variety, the dullest expanse in Venice. It was not dull, we
imagine, for Lord Byron, who lived in the midmost of the three Mocenigo
palaces, where the writing-table is still shown at which he gave the
rein to his passions. For other observers it is sufficiently enlivened
by so delightful a creation as the Palazzo Loredan, once a masterpiece
and at present the Municipio, not to speak of a variety of other
immemorial bits whose beauty still has a degree of freshness. Some of
the most touching relics of early Venice are here--for it was here she
precariously clustered--peeping out of a submersion more pitiless than
the sea. As we approach the Rialto indeed the picture falls off and a
comparative commonness suffuses it. There is a wide paved walk on either
side of the Canal, on which the waterman--and who in Venice is not a
waterman?--is prone to seek repose. I speak of the summer days--it is
the summer Venice that is the visible Venice. The big tarry barges are
drawn up at the fondamenta, and the bare-legged boatmen, in faded blue
cotton, lie asleep on the hot stones. If there were no colour anywhere
else there would be enough in their tanned personalities. Half the low
doorways open into the warm interior of waterside drinking-shops, and
here and there, on the quay, beneath the bush that overhangs the door,
there are rickety tables and chairs. Where in Venice is there not the
amusement of character and of detail? The tone in this part is very
vivid, and is largely that of the brown plebeian faces looking out of
the patchy miscellaneous houses--the faces of fat undressed women and of
other simple folk who are not aware that they enjoy, from balconies once
doubtless patrician, a view the knowing ones of the earth come thousands
of miles to envy them. The effect is enhanced by the tattered clothes
hung to dry in the windows, by the sun-faded rags that flutter from the
polished balustrades--these are ivory-smooth with time; and the whole
scene profits by the general law that renders decadence and ruin
in Venice more brilliant than any prosperity. Decay is in this
extraordinary place golden in tint and misery couleur de rose. The
gondolas of the correct people are unmitigated sable, but the poor
market-boats from the islands are kaleidoscopic.
The Bridge of the Rialto is a name to conjure with, but, honestly
speaking, it is scarcely the gem of the composition. There are of course
two ways of taking it--from the water or from the upper passage, where
its small shops and booths abound in Venetian character; but it mainly
counts as a feature of the Canal when seen from the gondola or even from
the awful vaporetto. The great curve of its single arch is much to
be commended, especially when, coming from the direction of the
railway-station, you see it frame with its sharp compass-line the
perfect picture, the reach of the Canal on the other side. But the backs
of the little shops make from the water a graceless collective hump, and
the inside view is the diverting one. The big arch of the bridge--like
the arches of all the bridges--is the waterman’s friend in wet weather.
The gondolas, when it rains, huddle beside the peopled barges, and
the young ladies from the hotels, vaguely fidgeting, complain of the
communication of insect life. Here indeed is a little of everything, and
the jewellers of this celebrated precinct--they have their immemorial
row--make almost as fine a show as the fruiterers. It is a universal
market, and a fine place to study Venetian types. The produce of
the islands is discharged there, and the fishmongers announce their
presence. All one’s senses indeed are vigorously attacked; the whole
place is violently hot and bright, all odorous and noisy. The churning
of the screw of the vaporetto mingles with the other sounds--not
indeed that this offensive note is confined to one part of the Canal.
But Just here the little piers of the resented steamer are particularly
near together, and it seems somehow to be always kicking up the water.
As we go further down we see it stopping exactly beneath the glorious
windows of the Ca’d’Oro. It has chosen its position well, and who
shall gainsay it for having put itself under the protection of the
most romantic facade in Europe? The companionship of these objects is
a symbol; it expresses supremely the present and the future of Venice.
Perfect, in its prime, was the marble Ca’d’Oro, with the noble recesses
of its loggie, but even then it probably never “met a want,” like the
successful vaporetto. If, however, we are not to go into the Museo
Civico--the old Museo Correr, which rears a staring renovated front
far down on the left, near the station, so also we must keep out of the
great vexed question of steam on the Canalazzo, just as a while since we
prudently kept out of the Accademia. These are expensive and complicated
excursions. It is obvious that if the vaporetti have contributed to
the ruin of the gondoliers, already hard pressed by fate, and to that of
the palaces, whose foundations their waves undermine, and that if
they have robbed the Grand Canal of the supreme distinction of its
tranquillity, so on the other hand they have placed “rapid transit,” in
the New York phrase, in everybody’s reach, and enabled everybody--save
indeed those who wouldn’t for the world--to rush about Venice as
furiously as people rush about New York. The suitability of this
consummation needn’t be pointed out.
Even we ourselves, in the irresistible contagion, are going so fast now
that we have only time to note in how clever and costly a fashion the
Museo Civico, the old Fondaco dei Turchi, has been reconstructed and
restored. It is a glare of white marble without, and a series of showy
majestic halls within, where a thousand curious mementos and relics of
old Venice are gathered and classified. Of its miscellaneous treasures
I fear I may perhaps frivolously prefer the series of its remarkable
living Longhis, an illustration of manners more copious than the
celebrated Carpaccio, the two ladies with their little animals and their
long sticks. Wonderful indeed today are the museums of Italy, where
the renovations and the belle ordonnance speak of funds apparently
unlimited, in spite of the fact that the numerous custodians
frankly look starved. What is the pecuniary source of all this civic
magnificence--it is shown in a hundred other ways--and how do the
Italian cities manage to acquit themselves of expenses that would be
formidable to communities richer and doubtless less aesthetic? Who pays
the bills for the expressive statues alone, the general exuberance
of sculpture, with which every piazzetta of almost every village
is patriotically decorated? Let us not seek an answer to the puzzling
question, but observe instead that we are passing the mouth of the
populous Canareggio, next widest of the waterways, where the race of
Shylock abides, and at the corner of which the big colourless church of
San Geremia stands gracefully enough on guard. The Canareggio, with its
wide lateral footways and humpbacked bridges, makes on the feast of St.
John an admirable noisy, tawdry theatre for one of the prettiest and the
most infantile of the Venetian processions.
The rest of the course is a reduced magnificence, in spite of
interesting bits, of the battered pomp of the Pesaro and the Cornaro,
of the recurrent memories of royalty in exile which cluster about the
Palazzo Vendramin Calergi, once the residence of the Comte de Chambord
and still that of his half-brother, in spite too of the big Papadopoli
gardens, opposite the station, the largest private grounds in Venice,
but of which Venice in general mainly gets the benefit in the usual form
of irrepressible greenery climbing over walls and nodding at water. The
rococo church of the Scalzi is here, all marble and malachite, all a
cold, hard glitter and a costly, curly ugliness, and here too, opposite,
on the top of its high steps, is San Simeone Profeta, I won’t say
immortalised, but unblushingly misrepresented, by the perfidious
Canaletto. I shall not stay to unravel the mystery of this prosaic
painter’s malpractices; he falsified without fancy, and as he apparently
transposed at will the objects he reproduced, one is never sure of the
particular view that may have constituted his subject. It would look
exactly like such and such a place if almost everything were not
different. San Simeone Profeta appears to hang there upon the wall; but
it is on the wrong side of the Canal and the other elements quite fail
to correspond. One’s confusion is the greater because one doesn’t
know that everything may not really have changed, even beyond all
probability--though it’s only in America that churches cross the street
or the river--and the mixture of the recognisable and the different
makes the ambiguity maddening, all the more that the painter is almost
as attaching as he is bad. Thanks at any rate to the white church, domed
and porticoed, on the top of its steps, the traveller emerging for
the first time upon the terrace of the railway-station seems to have a
Canaletto before him. He speedily discovers indeed even in the presence
of this scene of the final accents of the Canalazzo--there is a charm in
the old pink warehouses on the hot fondamenta--that he has something
much better. He looks up and down at the gathered gondolas; he has his
surprise after all, his little first Venetian thrill; and as the terrace
of the station ushers in these things we shall say no harm of it, though
it is not lovely. It is the beginning of his experience, but it is the
end of the Grand Canal.
1892.
VENICE: AN EARLY IMPRESSION
There would be much to say about that golden chain of historic cities
which stretches from Milan to Venice, in which the very names--Brescia,
Verona, Mantua, Padua--are an ornament to one’s phrase; but I should
have to draw upon recollections now three years old and to make my short
story a long one. Of Verona and Venice only have I recent impressions,
and even to these must I do hasty justice. I came into Venice, just as
I had done before, toward the end of a summer’s day, when the shadows
begin to lengthen and the light to glow, and found that the attendant
sensations bore repetition remarkably well. There was the same last
intolerable delay at Mestre, just before your first glimpse of the
lagoon confirms the already distinct sea-smell which has added speed to
the precursive flight of your imagination; then the liquid level,
edged afar off by its band of undiscriminated domes and spires, soon
distinguished and proclaimed, however, as excited and contentious heads
multiply at the windows of the train; then your long rumble on the
immense white railway-bridge, which, in spite of the invidious contrast
drawn, and very properly, by Mr. Ruskin between the old and the new
approach, does truly, in a manner, shine across the green lap of the
lagoon like a mighty causeway of marble; then the plunge into the
station, which would be exactly similar to every other plunge save for
one little fact--that the keynote of the great medley of voices borne
back from the exit is not “Cab, sir!” but “Barca, signore!”
I do not mean, however, to follow the traveller through every phase of
his initiation, at the risk of stamping poor Venice beyond repair as the
supreme bugbear of literature; though for my own part I hold that to
a fine healthy romantic appetite the subject can’t be too diffusely
treated. Meeting in the Piazza on the evening of my arrival a young
American painter who told me that he had been spending the summer just
where I found him, I could have assaulted him for very envy. He was
painting forsooth the interior of St. Mark’s. To be a young American
painter unperplexed by the mocking, elusive soul of things and satisfied
with their wholesome light-bathed surface and shape; keen of eye; fond
of colour, of sea and sky and anything that may chance between them; of
old lace and old brocade and old furniture (even when made to order); of
time-mellowed harmonies on nameless canvases and happy contours in cheap
old engravings; to spend one’s mornings in still, productive analysis
of the clustered shadows of the Basilica, one’s afternoons anywhere, in
church or campo, on canal or lagoon, and one’s evenings in star-light
gossip at Florian’s, feeling the sea-breeze throb languidly between the
two great pillars of the Piazzetta and over the low black domes of the
church--this, I consider, is to be as happy as is consistent with the
preservation of reason.
The mere use of one’s eyes in Venice is happiness enough, and generous
observers find it hard to keep an account of their profits in this line.
Everything the attention touches holds it, keeps playing with it--thanks
to some inscrutable flattery of the atmosphere. Your brown-skinned,
white-shirted gondolier, twisting himself in the light, seems to you,
as you lie at contemplation beneath your awning, a perpetual symbol of
Venetian “effect.” The light here is in fact a mighty magician and, with
all respect to Titian, Veronese and Tintoret, the greatest artist
of them all. You should see in places the material with which it
deals--slimy brick, marble battered and befouled, rags, dirt, decay.
Sea and sky seem to meet half-way, to blend their tones into a soft
iridescence, a lustrous compound of wave and cloud and a hundred
nameless local reflections, and then to fling the clear tissue against
every object of vision. You may see these elements at work everywhere,
but to see them in their intensity you should choose the finest day
in the month and have yourself rowed far away across the lagoon to
Torcello. Without making this excursion you can hardly pretend to
know Venice or to sympathise with that longing for pure radiance which
animated her great colourists. It is a perfect bath of light, and I
couldn’t get rid of a fancy that we were cleaving the upper atmosphere
on some hurrying cloud-skiff. At Torcello there is nothing but the light
to see--nothing at least but a sort of blooming sand-bar intersected
by a single narrow creek which does duty as a canal and occupied by a
meagre cluster of huts, the dwellings apparently of market-gardeners
and fishermen, and by a ruinous church of the eleventh century. It is
impossible to imagine a more penetrating case of unheeded collapse.
Torcello was the mother-city of Venice, and she lies there now, a mere
mouldering vestige, like a group of weather-bleached parental bones left
impiously unburied. I stopped my gondola at the mouth of the shallow
inlet and walked along the grass beside a hedge to the low-browed,
crumbling cathedral. The charm of certain vacant grassy spaces, in
Italy, overfrowned by masses of brickwork that are honeycombed by the
suns of centuries, is something that I hereby renounce once for all the
attempt to express; but you may be sure that whenever I mention such a
spot enchantment lurks in it.
A delicious stillness covered the little campo at Torcello; I remember
none so subtly audible save that of the Roman Campagna. There was
no life but the visible tremor of the brilliant air and the cries of
half-a-dozen young children who dogged our steps and clamoured for
coppers. These children, by the way, were the handsomest little brats in
the world, and, each was furnished with a pair of eyes that could only
have signified the protest of nature against the meanness of fortune.
They were very nearly as naked as savages, and their little bellies
protruded like those of infant cannibals in the illustrations of books
of travel; but as they scampered and sprawled in the soft, thick grass,
grinning like suddenly-translated cherubs and showing their hungry
little teeth, they suggested forcibly that the best assurance of
happiness in this world is to be found in the maximum of innocence and
the minimum of wealth. One small urchin--framed, if ever a child was, to
be the joy of an aristocratic mamma--was the most expressively beautiful
creature I had ever looked upon. He had a smile to make Correggio sigh
in his grave; and yet here he was running wild among the sea-stunted
bushes, on the lonely margin of a decaying world, in prelude to how
blank or to how dark a destiny? Verily nature is still at odds with
propriety; though indeed if they ever really pull together I fear nature
will quite lose her distinction. An infant citizen of our own republic,
straight-haired, pale-eyed and freckled, duly darned and catechised,
marching into a New England schoolhouse, is an object often seen and
soon forgotten; but I think I shall always remember with infinite tender
conjecture, as the years roll by, this little unlettered Eros of the
Adriatic strand. Yet all youthful things at Torcello were not cheerful,
for the poor lad who brought us the key of the cathedral was shaking
with an ague, and his melancholy presence seemed to point the moral of
forsaken nave and choir. The church, admirably primitive and curious,
reminded me of the two or three oldest churches of Rome--St. Clement
and St. Agnes. The interior is rich in grimly mystical mosaics of the
twelfth century and the patchwork of precious fragments in the pavement
not inferior to that of St. Mark’s. But the terribly distinct Apostles
are ranged against their dead gold backgrounds as stiffly as grenadiers
presenting arms--intensely personal sentinels of a personal Deity. Their
stony stare seems to wait for ever vainly for some visible revival
of primitive orthodoxy, and one may well wonder whether it finds much
beguilement in idly-gazing troops of Western heretics--passionless even
in their heresy.
I had been curious to see whether in the galleries and temples of Venice
I should be disposed to transpose my old estimates--to burn what I had
adored and adore what I had burned. It is a sad truth that one can stand
in the Ducal Palace for the first time but once, with the deliciously
ponderous sense of that particular half-hour’s being an era in one’s
mental history; but I had the satisfaction of finding at least--a great
comfort in a short stay--that none of my early memories were likely to
change places and that I could take up my admirations where I had left
them. I still found Carpaccio delightful, Veronese magnificent, Titian
supremely beautiful and Tintoret scarce to be appraised. I repaired
immediately to the little church of San Cassano, which contains the
smaller of Tintoret’s two great Crucifixions; and when I had looked
at it a while I drew a long breath and felt I could now face any other
picture in Venice with proper self-possession. It seemed to me I had
advanced to the uttermost limit of painting; that beyond this another
art--inspired poetry--begins, and that Bellini, Veronese, Giorgione, and
Titian, all joining hands and straining every muscle of their genius,
reach forward not so far but that they leave a visible space in which
Tintoret alone is master. I well remember the exaltations to which
he lifted me when first I learned to know him; but the glow of that
comparatively youthful amazement is dead, and with it, I fear,
that confident vivacity of phrase of which, in trying to utter my
impressions, I felt less the magniloquence than the impotence. In
his power there are many weak spots, mysterious lapses and fitful
intermissions; but when the list of his faults is complete he still
remains to me the most interesting of painters. His reputation rests
chiefly on a more superficial sort of merit--his energy, his unsurpassed
productivity, his being, as Théophile Gautier says, le roi des
fougueux. These qualities are immense, but the great source of his
impressiveness is that his indefatigable hand never drew a line that was
not, as one may say, a moral line. No painter ever had such breadth and
such depth; and even Titian, beside him, scarce figures as more than a
great decorative artist. Mr. Ruskin, whose eloquence in dealing with the
great Venetians sometimes outruns his discretion, is fond of speaking
even of Veronese as a painter of deep spiritual intentions. This, it
seems to me, is pushing matters too far, and the author of “The Rape
of Europa” is, pictorially speaking, no greater casuist than any other
genius of supreme good taste. Titian was assuredly a mighty poet, but
Tintoret--well, Tintoret was almost a prophet. Before his greatest works
you are conscious of a sudden evaporation of old doubts and dilemmas,
and the eternal problem of the conflict between idealism and realism
dies the most natural of deaths. In his genius the problem is
practically solved; the alternatives are so harmoniously interfused that
I defy the keenest critic to say where one begins and the other ends.
The homeliest prose melts into the most ethereal poetry--the literal and
the imaginative fairly confound their identity.
This, however, is vague praise. Tintoret’s great merit, to my mind, was
his unequalled distinctness of vision. When once he had conceived the
germ of a scene it defined itself to his imagination with an intensity,
an amplitude, an individuality of expression, which makes one’s
observation of his pictures seem less an operation of the mind than
a kind of supplementary experience of life. Veronese and Titian are
content with a much looser specification, as their treatment of any
subject that the author of the Crucifixion at San Cassano has also
treated abundantly proves. There are few more suggestive contrasts than
that between the absence of a total character at all commensurate with
its scattered variety and brilliancy in Veronese’s “Marriage of Cana,”
 at the Louvre, and the poignant, almost startling, completeness of
Tintoret’s illustration of the theme at the Salute church. To compare
his “Presentation of the Virgin,” at the Madonna dell’ Orto, with
Titian’s at the Academy, or his “Annunciation” with Titian’s close at
hand, is to measure the essential difference between observation and
imagination. One has certainly not said all that there is to say for
Titian when one has called him an observer. Il y mettait du sien,
and I use the term to designate roughly the artist whose apprehension,
infinitely deep and strong when applied to the single figure or
to easily balanced groups, spends itself vainly on great dramatic
combinations--or rather leaves them ungauged. It was the whole scene
that Tintoret seemed to have beheld in a flash of inspiration intense
enough to stamp it ineffaceably on his perception; and it was the whole
scene, complete, peculiar, individual, unprecedented, that he committed
to canvas with all the vehemence of his talent. Compare his “Last
Supper,” at San Giorgio--its long, diagonally placed table, its dusky
spaciousness, its scattered lamp-light and halo-light, its startled,
gesticulating figures, its richly realistic foreground--with the
customary formal, almost mathematical rendering of the subject, in which
impressiveness seems to have been sought in elimination rather than
comprehension. You get from Tintoret’s work the impression that he
felt, pictorially, the great, beautiful, terrible spectacle of human
life very much as Shakespeare felt it poetically--with a heart that
never ceased to beat a passionate accompaniment to every stroke of
his brush. Thanks to this fact his works are signally grave, and their
almost universal and rapidly increasing decay doesn’t relieve their
gloom. Nothing indeed can well be sadder than the great collection of
Tintorets at San Rocco. Incurable blackness is settling fast upon all of
them, and they frown at you across the sombre splendour of their great
chambers like gaunt twilight phantoms of pictures. To our children’s
children Tintoret, as things are going, can be hardly more than a name;
and such of them as shall miss the tragic beauty, already so dimmed
and stained, of the great “Bearing of the Cross” in that temple of his
spirit will live and die without knowing the largest eloquence of art.
If you wish to add the last touch of solemnity to the place recall
as vividly as possible while you linger at San Rocco the painter’s
singularly interesting portrait of himself, at the Louvre. The old
man looks out of the canvas from beneath a brow as sad as a sunless
twilight, with just such a stoical hopelessness as you might fancy him
to wear if he stood at your side gazing at his rotting canvases. It
isn’t whimsical to read it as the face of a man who felt that he had
given the world more than the world was likely to repay. Indeed before
every picture of Tintoret you may remember this tremendous portrait with
profit. On one side the power, the passion, the illusion of his art; on
the other the mortal fatigue of his spirit. The world’s knowledge of
him is so small that the portrait throws a doubly precious light on his
personality; and when we wonder vainly what manner of man he was, and
what were his purpose, his faith and his method, we may find forcible
assurance there that they were at any rate his life--one of the most
intellectually passionate ever led.
Verona, which was my last Italian stopping-place, is in any conditions
a delightfully interesting city; but the kindness of my own memory of it
is deepened by a subsequent ten days’ experience of Germany. I rose one
morning at Verona, and went to bed at night at Botzen! The statement
needs no comment, and the two places, though but fifty miles apart, are
as painfully dissimilar as their names. I had prepared myself for your
delectation with a copious tirade on German manners, German scenery,
German art and the German stage--on the lights and shadows of Innsbrück,
Munich, Nüremberg and Heidelberg; but just as I was about to put pen
to paper I glanced into a little volume on these very topics lately
published by that famous novelist and moralist, M. Ernest Feydeau,
the fruit of a summer’s observation at Homburg. This work produced a
reaction; and if I chose to follow M. Feydeau’s own example when he
wishes to qualify his approbation I might call his treatise by any vile
name known to the speech of man. But I content myself with pronouncing
it superficial. I then reflect that my own opportunities for seeing and
judging were extremely limited, and I suppress my tirade, lest some more
enlightened critic should come and hang me with the same rope. Its sum
and substance was to have been that--superficially--Germany is ugly;
that Munich is a nightmare, Heidelberg a disappointment (in spite of its
charming castle) and even Nüremberg not a joy for ever. But comparisons
are odious, and if Munich is ugly Verona is beautiful enough. You may
laugh at my logic, but will probably assent to my meaning. I carried
away from Verona a precious mental picture upon which I cast an
introspective glance whenever between Botzen and Strassburg the
oppression of external circumstance became painful. It was a lovely
August afternoon in the Roman arena--a ruin in which repair and
restoration have been so watchfully and plausibly practised that it
seems all of one harmonious antiquity. The vast stony oval rose high
against the sky in a single clear, continuous line, broken here and
there only by strolling and reclining loungers. The massive tiers
inclined in solid monotony to the central circle, in which a small
open-air theatre was in active operation. A small quarter of the great
slope of masonry facing the stage was roped off into an auditorium, in
which the narrow level space between the foot-lights and the lowest
step figured as the pit. Foot-lights are a figure of speech, for the
performance was going on in the broad glow of the afternoon, with
a delightful and apparently by no means misplaced confidence in the
good-will of the spectators. What the piece was that was deemed so
superbly able to shift for itself I know not--very possibly the same
drama that I remember seeing advertised during my former visit to
Verona; nothing less than La Tremenda Giustizia di Dio. If titles
are worth anything this product of the melodramatist’s art might surely
stand upon its own legs. Along the tiers above the little group of
regular spectators was gathered a free-list of unauthorised observers,
who, although beyond ear-shot, must have been enabled by the generous
breadth of Italian gesture to follow the tangled thread of the piece.
It was all deliciously Italian--the mixture of old life and new, the
mountebank’s booth (it was hardly more) grafted on the antique circus,
the dominant presence of a mighty architecture, the loungers and idlers
beneath the kindly sky and upon the sun-warmed stones. I never felt more
keenly the difference between the background to life in very old and
very new civilisations. There are other things in Verona to make it
a liberal education to be born there, though that it is one for
the contemporary Veronese I don’t pretend to say. The Tombs of the
Scaligers, with their soaring pinnacles, their high-poised canopies,
their exquisite refinement and concentration of the Gothic idea, I can’t
profess, even after much worshipful gazing, to have fully comprehended
and enjoyed. They seemed to me full of deep architectural meanings, such
as must drop gently into the mind one by one, after infinite tranquil
contemplation. But even to the hurried and preoccupied traveller the
solemn little chapel-yard in the city’s heart, in which they stand
girdled by their great swaying curtain of linked and twisted iron, is
one of the most impressive spots in Italy. Nowhere else is such a wealth
of artistic achievement crowded into so narrow a space; nowhere else are
the daily comings and goings of men blessed by the presence of manlier
art. Verona is rich furthermore in beautiful churches--several with
beautiful names: San Fermo, Santa Anastasia, San Zenone. This last is a
structure of high antiquity and of the most impressive loveliness. The
nave terminates in a double choir, that is a sub-choir or crypt into
which you descend and where you wander among primitive columns whose
variously grotesque capitals rise hardly higher than your head, and an
upper choral plane reached by broad stairways of the bravest effect. I
shall never forget the impression of majestic chastity that I received
from the great nave of the building on my former visit. I then decided
to my satisfaction that every church is from the devotional point of
view a solecism that has not something of a similar absolute felicity
of proportion; for strictly formal beauty seems best to express our
conception of spiritual beauty. The nobly serious character of San
Zenone is deepened by its single picture--a masterpiece of the most
serious of painters, the severe and exquisite Mantegna.
{Illustration: THE AMPHITHEATRE, VERONA}
1872
TWO OLD HOUSES AND THREE YOUNG WOMEN
There are times and places that come back yet again, but that, when the
brooding tourist puts out his hand to them, meet it a little slowly, or
even seem to recede a step, as if in slight fear of some liberty he may
take. Surely they should know by this time that he is capable of taking
none. He has his own way--he makes it all right. It now becomes just
a part of the charming solicitation that it presents precisely a
problem--that of giving the particular thing as much as possible without
at the same time giving it, as we say, away. There are considerations,
proprieties, a necessary indirectness--he must use, in short, a little
art. No necessity, however, more than this, makes him warm to his work,
and thus it is that, after all, he hangs his three pictures.
I
The evening that was to give me the first of them was by no means the
