in the study of man! I had to realise that I loved one of them who has
done enough to annihilate in me anything except love. I had to learn
that he couldn't kill that--that I want him in spite of it, that I need
him, that my heart is sick with dread; that he can have me when he
will--Oh, Kathleen, I have learned to care less for him than when I
denied him for his own sake--more for him than I did before he held me
in his arms! And that is not a high type of love--I know it--but oh, if
I could only have his arms around me--if I could rest there for a
while--and not feel so frightened, so utterly alone!--I might win out; I
might kill what is menacing me, with God's help--and his!"
She lay shivering on Kathleen's breast now, dry-eyed, twisting her
ringless fingers in dumb anguish.
"Darling, darling," murmured Kathleen, "you cannot do this thing. You
cannot let him assume a burden that is yours alone."
"Why not? What is one's lover for?"
"Not to use; not to hazard; not to be made responsible for a sick mind
and a will already demoralised. Is it fair to ask him--to let him begin
life with such a burden--such a handicap? Is it not braver, fairer, to
fight it out alone, eradicate what threatens you--oh, my own darling! my
little Geraldine!--is it not fairer to the man you love? Is he not worth
striving for, suffering for? Have you no courage to endure if he is to
be the reward? Is a little selfish weakness, a miserable self-indulgence
to stand between you and life-long happiness?"
Geraldine looked up; her face was very white:
"Have you ever been tempted?"
"Have I not been to-night?"
"I mean by--something ignoble?"
"No."
"Do you know how it hurts?"
"To--to deny yourself?"
"Yes.... It is so--difficult--it makes me wretchedly weak.... I only
thought he might help me.... You are right, Kathleen.... I must be
terribly demoralised to have wished it. I--I will not marry him, now. I
don't think I ever will.... You are right. I have got to be fair to him,
no matter what he has been to me.... He has been fearfully unfair. After
all, he is only a man.... I couldn't really love a god."
CHAPTER XIII
AMBITIONS AND LETTERS
Rosalie had departed; Grandcourt followed suit next day; Sylvia's
brother, Stuyvesant, had at last found a sober moment at his disposal
and had appeared at Roya-Neh and taken his sister away. Duane was all
ready to go to New York to find out whether his father was worrying over
anything, as the tone of his letters indicated.
The day he left, Kathleen and Geraldine started on a round of August
house parties, ranging from Lenox to Long Island, including tiresome
week ends and duty visits to some very unpretentious but highly
intellectual relatives of Mrs. Severn. So Scott remained in solitary
possession of Roya-Neh, with its forests, gardens, pastures, lakes and
streams, and a staggering payroll and all the multiplicity of problems
that such responsibility entails. Which pleased him immensely, except
for the departure of Kathleen.
To play the intellectual country squire had been all he desired on earth
except Kathleen. From the beginning White's "Selborne" had remained his
model for all books, Kathleen for all women. He was satisfied with these
two components of perfect happiness, and with himself, as he was, for
the third ingredient in a contented and symmetrical existence.
He had accepted his answer from her with more philosophy than she quite
expected or was prepared for, saying that if she made a particular
point of it he would go about next winter and give himself a chance to
meet as many desirable young girls as she thought best; that it was
merely wasting time, but if it made her any happier, he'd wait and
endeavour to return to their relations of unsentimental comradeship
until she was satisfied he knew his mind.
Kathleen was, at first, a little dismayed at his complacency. It was
only certainty of himself. At twenty-two there is time for anything, and
the vista of life ahead is endless. And there was one thing more which
Kathleen did not know. Under the covering of this Seagrave complacency
and self-centred sufficiency, all alone by itself was developing the
sprouting germ of consideration for others.
How it started he himself did not know--nor was he even aware that it
had started. But long, solitary rambles and the quiet contemplation of
other things besides himself had awakened first curiosity, then a
dawning suspicion of the rights of others.
In the silence of forests it is difficult to preserve complacency; under
the stars modesty is born.
It began to occur to him, by degrees, that his own personal importance
among his kind might be due, in part, to his fortune. And from the
first invasion of that shocking idea matters progressed rather rapidly
with the last of the Seagraves.
He said uneasily to Duane, once: "Are you going in seriously for
painting?"
"I am in," observed Duane drily.
"Professionally?"
"Sure thing. God hates an amateur."
"What are you after?" persisted Scott. "Fame?"
"Yes; I need it in my business."
"Are you contemplating a velvet coat and bow tie, and a bunch of the
elect at your heels?--ratty men, and pop-eyed young women whose coiffure
needs weeding?"
Duane laughed. "Are they any more deadly than our own sort? Why endure
either? Because you are developing into a country squire, you don't have
to marry Maud Muller." And he quoted Bret Harte:
    "For there be women fair as she,
    Whose verbs and nouns do more agree."
"You don't have to wallow in a profession, you know."
"But why the mischief do you want to paint professionally?" inquired
Scott, with unsatisfied curiosity. "It isn't avarice, is it?"
"I expect to hold out for what my pictures are worth, if that's what you
mean by avarice. What I'm trying to do," added Duane, striking his palm
with his fist as emphasis, "is not to die the son of a wealthy man. If I
can't be anything more, I'm not worth a damn. But I'm going to be. I can
do it, Scott; I'm lazy, I'm undecided, I've a weak streak. And yet, do
you know, with all my blemishes, all my misgivings, all my
discouragements, panics, despondent moments, I am, way down inside,
serenely and unaccountably certain that I can paint like the devil, and
that I am going to do it. That sounds cheeky, doesn't it?"
"It sounds all right to me," said Scott. And he walked away
thoughtfully, fists dug deep in his pockets.
And one still, sunny afternoon, standing alone on the dry granite crags
of the Golden Dome, he looked up and saw, a quarter of a million miles
above him, the moon's ghost swimming in azure splendour. Then he looked
down and saw the map of the earth below him, where his forests spread
out like moss, and his lakes mirrored the clouds, and a river belonging
to him traced its course across the valley in a single silver thread.
And a slight blush stung his face at the thought that, without any merit
or endeavour of his own, his money had bought it all--his money, that
had always acted as his deputy, fought for him, conquered for him,
spoken for him, vouched for him--perhaps pleaded for him!--he shivered,
and suddenly he realised that this golden voice was, in fact, all there
was to him.
What had he to identify him on earth among mankind? Only his money.
Wherein did he differ from other men? He had more money. What had he to
offer as excuse for living at all? Money. What had he done? Lived on it,
by it. Why, then, it was the money that was entitled to distinction, and
he figured only as its parasite! Then he was nothing--even a little
less. In the world there was man and there was money. It seemed that he
was a little lower in the scale than either; a parasite--scarcely a
thing of distinction to offer Kathleen Severn.
Very seriously he looked up at the moon.
It was the day following his somewhat disordered and impassioned
declaration. He expected to receive his answer that evening; and he
descended the mountain in a curiously uncertain and perplexed state of
mind which at times bordered on a modesty painfully akin to humbleness.
Meanwhile, Duane was preparing to depart on the morrow. And that evening
he also was to have his definite answer to the letter which Kathleen had
taken to Geraldine Seagrave that morning.
    "Dear," he had written, "I once told you that my weakness needed
    the aid of all that is best in you; that yours required the best of
    courage and devotion that lies in me. It is surely so. Together we
    conquer the world--which is ourselves.
    "For the little things that seem to threaten our separation do not
    really alarm me. Even if I actually committed the inconsequential
    and casual thing that so abruptly and so deeply offended you, there
    remains enough soundness in me at the core to warrant your charity
    and repay, in a measure, your forgiveness and a renewal of your
    interest in my behalf.
    "Search your heart, Geraldine; question your intelligence; both will
    tell you that I am enough of a man to dare love you. And it takes
    something of a man to dare do it.
    "There is a thing that I might say which would convince you, even
    against the testimony of your own eyes, that never in deed or in
    thought have I been really disloyal to you since you gave me your
    heart.... Yet I must not say it.... Can you summon sufficient faith
    in me to accept that statement--against the evidence of those two
    divine witnesses which condemn me--your eyes? Circumstantial
    evidence is no good in this case, dear. I can say no more than that.
    "Dearest, what can compare to the disaster of losing each other?
    "I ask you to let me have the right to stand by you in your present
    distress and despondency. What am I for if not for such moments?
    "That night you were closer to the danger mark than you have ever
    been. I know that my conduct--at least your interpretation of
    it--threw you, for the moment off your guarded balance; but that
    your attitude toward such a crisis--your solution of such a
    situation--should be a leap forward toward self-destruction--a
    reckless surrender to anger and blind impulse, only makes me the
    more certain that we need each other now if ever.
    "The silent, lonely, forlorn battle that has been going on behind
    the door of your room and the doors of your heart during these last
    few days, is more than I can well endure. Open both doors to me;
    leagued we can win through!
    "Give me the right to be with you by night as well as by daylight,
    and we two shall stand together and see 'the day break and the
    shadows flee away.'"
That same evening his reply came:
    "My darling, Kathleen will give you this. I don't care what my eyes
    saw if you tell me it isn't true. I have loved you, anyway, all the
    while--even with my throat full of tears and my mouth bitter with
    anger, and my heart torn into several thousand tatters--oh, it is
    not very difficult to love you, Duane; the only trouble is to love
    you in the right way; which is hard, dear, because I want you so
    much; and it's so new to me to be unselfish. I began to learn by
    loving you.
    "Which means, that I will not let you take the risk you ask for.
    Give me time; I've fought it off since that miserable night. Heaven
    alone knows why I surrendered--turning to my deadly enemy for
    countenance and comfort to support my childish and contemptible
    anger against you.
    "Duane, there is an evil streak in me, and we both must reckon with
    it. Long, long before I knew I loved you, things you said and did
    often wounded me; and within me a perfectly unreasoning desire to
    hurt you--to make you suffer--always flamed up and raged.
    "I think that was partly what made me do what you know I did that
    night. It would hurt you; that was my ignoble instinct. God knows
    whether it was also a hideous sort of excuse for my weakness--for I
    was blazing hot after the last dance--and the gaiety and uproar and
    laughter all overexcited me--and then what I had seen you do, and
    your not coming to me, and that ominous uneasy impulse stirring!
    "That is the truth as I analyse it. The dreadful thing is that I
    could have been capable of dealing our chance of happiness such a
    cowardly blow.
    "Well, it is over. The thing has fled for a while. I fought it down,
    stamped on it with utter horror and loathing. It--the
    encounter--tired me. I am weary yet--from honourable wounds. But I
    won out. If it comes back again--Oh, Duane! and it surely will--I
    shall face it undaunted once more; and every hydra-head that stirs I
    shall kill until the thing lies dead between us for all time.
    "Then, dear, will you take the girl who has done this thing?
                                                  "GERALDINE SEAGRAVE."
This was his answer on the eve of his departure.
And on the morning of it Geraldine came down to say good-bye; a fresh,
sweet, and bewildering Geraldine, somewhat slimmer than when he had last
seen her, a little finer in feature, more delicate of body; and there
was about her even a hint of the spirituel as a fascinating trace of
what she had been through, locked in alone behind the doors of her room
and heart.
She bade him good-morning somewhat shyly, offering her slim hand and
looking at him with the slight uncertainty and bent brows of a person
coming suddenly into a strong light.
He said under his breath: "You poor darling, how thin you are."
"Athletics," she said; "Jacob wrestled with an angel, but you know what
I've been facing in the squared circle. Don't speak of it any more, will
you? ... How sunburned you are! What have you been about since I've kept
to my room?"
"I've painted Miller's kids in the open; I suppose the terrific
influence of Sorolla has me in bondage for the moment." He laughed
easily: "But don't worry; it will leave nothing except clean inspiration
behind it. I'll think out my own way--grope it out through Pantheon and
living maze. All I've really got to say in paint can be said only in my
own way. I know that, even when realising that I've been sunstruck by
Sorolla."
She listened demurely, watching him, her lips sensitive with
understanding; and she laughed when he laughed away his fealty to the
superb Spaniard, knowing himself and the untried strength within him.
"But when are you coming back to us, Duane?"
"I don't know. Father's letters perplex me. I'll write you every day, of
course."
A quick colour tinted her skin:
"And I will write you every day. I will begin to-day. Kathleen and I
expect to be here in September. But you will come back before that and
keep Scott company; won't you?"
"I want to get into harness again," he said slowly. "I want to settle
down to work."
"Can't you work here?"
"Not very well."
"Why?"
"To tell the truth," he admitted, smiling, "I require something more
like a working studio than Miller's garret."
"That's what I thought," she said shyly, "and Scott and I have the plans
for a studio all ready; and the men are to begin Monday, and Miller is
to take the new gate cottage. Oh, the plans are really very wonderful!"
she added hastily, as Duane looked grateful but dubious. "Rollins and
Calvert drew them. I wrote to Billy Calvert and sent him the original
plans for Hurryon Lodge. Duane, I thought it would please you----"
"It does, you dear, generous girl! I'm a trifle overwhelmed, that's all
my silence meant. You ought not to do this for me----"
"Why? Aren't we to be as near each other as we can be until--I am
ready--for something--closer?"
"Yes.... Certainly.... I'll arrange to work out certain things up here.
As for models, if there is nothing suitable at Westgate village, you
won't mind my importing some, will you?"
"No," she said, becoming very serious and gravely interested, as
befitted the fiancée of a painter of consequence. "You will do what is
necessary, of course; because I--few girls--are accustomed in the
beginning to the details of such a profession as yours; and I'm very
ignorant, Duane, and I must learn how to second you--intelligently"--she
blushed--"that is, if I'm to amount to anything as an artist's wife."
"You dear!" he whispered.
"No; I tell you I am totally ignorant. A studio is an awesome place to
me. I merely know enough to keep out of it when you are using models.
That is safest, isn't it?"
He said, intensely amused: "It might be safer not to give pink teas
while I am working from the nude."
"Duane! Do you think me a perfect ninny? Anyway, you're not always
painting Venus and Ariadne and horrid Ledas, are you?"
"Not always!" he managed to assure her; and her pretty, confused
laughter mingled with his unembarrassed mirth as the motor-car swung up
to carry him and his traps to the station.
They said good-bye; her dark eyes became very tragic; her lips
threatened to escape control.
Kathleen turned away, manoeuvring Scott out of earshot, who knowing
nothing of any situation between Duane and his sister, protested mildly,
but forgot when Kathleen led him to an orange-underwing moth asleep on
the stone coping of the terrace.
And when the unfortunate Catocala had been safely bottled and they stood
examining it in the library, Scott's rapidly diminishing conceit found
utterance:
"I say, Kathleen, it's all very well for me to collect these fascinating
things, but any ass can do that. One can't make a particular name for
one's self by doing what a lot of cleverer men have already done, and
what a lot of idle idiots are imitating."
She raised her violet eyes, astonished:
"Do you want to make a name for yourself?"
"Yes," he said, reddening.
"Why not? I'm a nobody. I'm worse; I'm an amateur! You ought to hear
what Duane has to say about amateurs!"
"But, Scott, you don't have to be anything in particular except what you
are----"
"What am I?" he demanded.
"Why--yourself."
"And what's that?" He grew redder. "I'll tell you, Kathleen. I'm merely
a painfully wealthy young man. Don't laugh; this is becoming deadly
serious to me. By my own exertions I've never done one bally thing
either useful or spectacular. I'm not distinguished by anything except
an unfair share of wealth. I'm not eminent, let alone pre-eminent, even
in that sordid class; there are richer men, plenty of them--some even
who have made their own fortunes and have not been hatched out in a
suffocating plethora of affluence like the larva of the Carnifex
tumble-bug----"
"Scott!"
"And I!" he ended savagely. "Why, I'm not even pre-eminent as far as my
position in the social puddle is concerned; there are sets that wouldn't
endure me; there's at least one club into which I couldn't possibly
wriggle; there are drawing-rooms where I wouldn't be tolerated, because
I've nothing on earth to recommend me or to distinguish me from Algernon
FitzNoodle and Montmorency de Sansgallette except an inflated income!
What have I to offer anybody worth while for entertaining me? What have
I to offer you, Kathleen, in exchange for yourself?"
He was becoming boyishly dramatic with sweeping gestures which amazed
her; but she was conscious that it was all sincere and very real to him.
"Scott, dear," she began sweetly, uncertain how to take it all;
"kindness, loyalty, and decent breeding are all that a woman cares for
in a man----"
"You are entitled to more; you are entitled to a man of distinction, of
attainment, of achievement----"
"Few women ask for that, Scott; few care for it; fewer still understand
it----"
"You would. I've got a cheek to ask you to marry me--me!--before I
wear any tag to identify me except the dollar mark----"
"Oh, hush, Scott! You are talking utter nonsense; don't you know it?"
He made a large and rather grandiose gesture:
"Around me lies opportunity, Kathleen--every stone; every brook----"
The mischievous laughter of his listener checked him. She said: "I'm
sorry; only it made me think of
        'Sermons in stones,
    Books in the running brooks,'
and the indignant gentleman who said: 'What damn nonsense! It's "sermons
in books, stones in the running brooks!"' Do go on, Scott, dear, I
don't mean to be frivolous; it is fine of you to wish for fame----"
"It isn't fame alone, although I wouldn't mind it if I deserved it. It's
that I want to do just one thing that amounts to something. I wish you'd
give me an idea, Kathleen, something useful in--say in entomology."
Together they walked back to the terrace. Duane had gone; Geraldine sat
sideways on the parapet, her brown eyes fixed on the road along which
her lover had departed.
"Geraldine," said Kathleen, who very seldom relapsed into the
vernacular, "this brother of yours desires to perform some startling
stunt in entomology and be awarded Carnegie medals."
"That's about it," said Scott, undaunted. "Some wise guy put it all over
the Boll-weevil, and saved a few billions for the cotton growers;
another gentleman full of scientific thinks studied out the San José
scale; others have got in good licks at mosquitoes and house-flies. I'd
like to tackle something of that sort."
"Rose-beetles," said his sister briefly. In her voice was a suspicion of
tears, and she kept her head turned from them.
"Nobody could ever get rid of Rose-beetles," said Kathleen. "But it
would be exciting, wouldn't it, Scott? Think of saving our roses and
peonies and irises every year!"
"I am thinking of it," said Scott gravely.
A few moments later he disappeared around the corner of the house,
returning presently, pockets bulging with bottles and boxes, a
field-microscope in one hand, and several volumes on Coleoptera in the
other.
"They're gone," he said without further explanation.
"Who are gone?" inquired Kathleen.
"The Rose-beetles. They deposit their eggs in the soil. The larvæ ought
to be out by now. I'm going to begin this very minute, Kathleen." And he
descended the terrace steps, entered the garden, and, seating himself
under a rose-tree, spread out his paraphernalia and began a delicate and
cautious burrowing process in the sun-dried soil.
"Fame is hidden under humble things," observed Geraldine with a resolute
effort at lightness. "That excellent brother of mine may yet discover it
in the garden dirt."
"Dirt breeds roses," said Kathleen. "Oh, look, dear, how earnest he is
about it. What a boy he is, after all! So serious and intent, and so
touchingly confident!"
Geraldine nodded listlessly, considering her brother's evolutions with
his trowel and weeder where he lay flat on his stomach, absorbed in his
investigations.
"Why does he get so grubby?" she said. "All his coat-pockets are
permanently out of shape. The other day I was looking through them, at
his request, to find one of my own handkerchiefs which he had taken, and
oh, horrors! a caterpillar, forgotten, had spun a big cocoon in one of
them!"
She shuddered, but in Kathleen's laughter there was a tremor of
tenderness born of that shy pride which arises from possession. For it
was now too late, if it had not always been too late, for any criticism
of this boy of hers. Perfect he had always been, wondrous to her, as a
child, for the glimpses of the man developing in him; perfect,
wonderful, adorable now for the glimpses of the child which she caught
so constantly through the man's character now forming day by day under
her loyal eyes. Everything masculine in him she loved or pardoned
proudly--even his egotism, his slapdash self-confidence, his bullying of
her, his domination, his exacting demands. But this new humility--this
sudden humble doubt that he might not be worthy of her, filled her heart
with delicious laughter and a delight almost childish.
So she watched him from the parapet, chin cupped in both palms, bright
hair blowing, one shoulder almost hidden under the drooping scarlet
nasturtiums pendant from the carved stone urn above; a fair, sweet,
youthful creature, young as her guiltless heart, sweet as her
conscience, fair as the current of her stainless life.
And beside her, seated sideways, brown eyes brooding, sat a young girl,
delicately lovely, already harassed, already perplexed, already bruised
and wearied by her first skirmishes with life; not yet fully
understanding what threatened, what lay before--alas! what lay behind
her--even to the fifth generation.
They were to motor to Lenox after luncheon. Before that--and leaving
Scott absorbed in his grubbing, and Kathleen absorbed in watching
him--Geraldine wandered back into the library and took down a book--a
book which had both beguiled and horrified the solitude of her
self-imprisonment. It was called "Simpson on Heredity."
There were some very hideous illustrated pages in that book; she turned
to them with a fearful fascination which had never left her since she
first read them. They dealt with the transmission of certain tendencies
through successive generations.
That the volume was an old one and amusingly out of date she did not
realise, as her brown eyes widened over terrifying paragraphs and the
soft tendrils of her glossy hair almost bristled.
She had asked Kathleen about it, and Kathleen had asked Dr. Bailey, who
became very irritated and told Geraldine that anybody except a physician
who ever read medical works was a fool. Desperation gave her courage to
ask him one more question; his well-meant reply silenced her. But she
had the book under her pillow. It is better to answer such questions
when the young ask them.
And over it all she pondered and pored, and used a dictionary and
shuddered, frightening herself into a morbid condition until,
desperately scared, she even thought of going to Duane about it; but
could not find the hardihood to do it or the vocabulary necessary.
Now Duane was gone; and the book lay there between her knees, all its
technical vagueness menacing her with unknown terrors; and she felt that
she could endure it alone no longer.
She wrote him:
    "You have not been gone an hour, and already I need you. I wish to
    ask you about something that is troubling me; I've asked Kathleen
    and she doesn't know; and Dr. Bailey was horrid to me, and I tried
    to find out from Scott whether he knew, but he wasn't much
    interested. So, Duane, who else is there for me to ask except you?
    And I don't exactly know whether I may speak about such matters to
    you, but I'm rather frightened, and densely ignorant.
    "It is this, dear; in a medical book which I read, it says that
    hereditary taints are transmissible; that sometimes they may skip
    the second generation but only to appear surely in the third. But it
    also says that the taint is very likely to appear in every
    generation.
    "Duane, is this true? It has worried me sick since I read it.
    Because, my darling, if it is so, is it not another reason for our
    not marrying?
    "Do you understand? I can and will eradicate what is threatening
    me, but if I marry you--you do understand, don't you? Isn't it
    all right for me to ask you whether, if we should have children,
    this thing would menace them? Oh, Duane--Duane! Have I any right to
    marry? Children come--God knows how, for nobody ever told me
    exactly, and I'm a fool about such things--but I summoned up courage
    to ask Dr. Bailey if there was any way to tell before I married
    whether I would have any, and he said I would if I had any notion of
    my duty and any pretence to self-respect. And I don't know what he
    means and I'm bewildered and miserable and afraid to marry you even
    when I myself become perfectly well. And that is what worries me,
    Duane, and I have nobody in the world to ask about it except you.
    Could you please tell me how I might learn what I ought to know
    concerning these things without betraying my own vital interest in
    them to whomever I ask? You see, Kathleen is as innocent as I.
    "Please tell me all you can, Duane, for I am most unhappy."
       *       *       *       *       *
    "The house is very still and full of sunlight and cut flowers. Scott
    is meditating great deeds, lying flat in the dirt. Kathleen sits
    watching him from the parapet. And I am here in the library, with
    that ghastly book at my elbow, pouring out all my doubts and fears
    to the only man in the world--whom God bless and protect wherever he
    may be--Oh, Duane, Duane, how I love you!"
She hurriedly directed and sealed the letter and placed it in the box
for outgoing mail; then, unquiet and apprehensive regarding what she had
ventured to write, she began a restless tour of the house, upstairs and
down, wandering aimlessly through sunny corridors, opening doors for a
brief survey of chambers in which only the shadow-patterns of leaves
moved on sunlit walls; still rooms tenanted only by the carefully dusted
furniture which seemed to stand there watching attentively for another
guest.
Duane had left his pipe in his bedroom. She was silly over it, even to
the point of retiring into her room, shredding some cigarettes, filling
the rather rank bowl, and trying her best to smoke it. But such devotion
was beyond her physical powers; she rinsed her mouth, furious at being
defeated in her pious intentions, and, making an attractive parcel of
the pipe, seized the occasion to write him another letter.
    "There is in my heart," she wrote, "no room for anything except
    you; no desire except for you; no hope, no interest that is not
    yours. You praise my beauty; you endow me with what you might wish I
    really possessed; and oh, I really am so humble at your feet, if you
    only knew it! So dazed by your goodness to me, so grateful, so happy
    that you have chosen me (I just jumped up to look at myself in the
    mirror; I am pretty, Duane, I've a stunning colour just now and
    there is a certain charm about me--even I can see it in what you
    call the upcurled corners of my mouth, and in my figure and
    hands)--and I am so happy that it is true--that you find me
    beautiful, that you care for my beauty.... It is so with a man, I
    believe; and a girl wishes to have him love her beauty, too.
    "But, Duane, I don't think the average girl cares very much about
    that in a man. Of course you are exceedingly nice to look at, and I
    notice it sometimes, but not nearly as often as you notice what you
    think is externally attractive about me.
    "In my heart, I don't believe it really matters much to a girl what
    a man looks like; anyway, it matters very little after she once
    knows him.
    "Of course women do notice handsome men--or what we consider
    handsome--which is, I believe, not at all what men care for; because
    men usually seem to have a desire to kick the man whom women find
    good-looking. I know several men who feel that way about Jack
    Dysart. I think you do, for one.
    "Poor Jack Dysart! To-day's papers are saying such horridly
    unpleasant things about the rich men with whom he was rather closely
    associated in business affairs several years ago. I read, but I do
    not entirely comprehend.
    "The New York papers seem unusually gloomy this summer; nothing but
    predictions of hard times coming, and how many corporations the
    attorney-general is going to proceed against, and wicked people who
    loot metropolitan railways, and why the district-attorney doesn't do
    his duty--which you say he does--oh, dear; I expect that Scott and
    Kathleen and I will have to take in boarders this winter; but if
    nobody has any money, nobody can pay board, so everybody will be
    ruined and I don't very much care, for I could teach school, only
    who is to pay my salary if there's no money to pay it with? Oh,
    dear! what nonsense I am writing--only to keep on writing, because
    it seems to bring you a little nearer--my own--my Duane--my
    comrade--the same, same little boy who ran away from his nurse and
    came into our garden to fight my brother and--fall in love with his
    sister! Oh, Fate! Oh, Destiny! Oh, Duane Mallett!
    "Here is a curious phenomenon. Listen:
    "Away from you I have a woman's courage to tell you how I long for
    you, how my heart and my arms ache for you. But when I am with you
    I'm less of a woman and more of a girl--a girl not yet accustomed to
    some things--always guarded, always a little reticent, always
    instinctively recoiling from the contact I really like, always a
    little on the defensive against your lips, in spite of
    myself--against your arms--where, somehow, I cannot seem to stay
    long at a time--will not endure it--cannot, somehow.
    "Yet, here, away from you, I so long for your embrace, and cannot
    imagine it too long, too close, too tender to satisfy my need of
    you.
    "And this is my second letter to you within the hour--one hour after
    your departure.
    "Oh, Duane, I do truly miss you so! I go about humming that air you
    found so quaint:
        "'Lisetto quittée la plaine,
           Moi perdi bonheur à moi,
        Yeux à moi semblent fontaine,
           Depuis moi pas miré toi,'
    and there's a tear in every note of it, and I'm the most lonely
    girl on the face of the earth to-day.
                                   "GERALDINE QUI PLEURE."
    "P.S.--Voici votre pipe, Monsieur!"
CHAPTER XIV
THE PROPHETS
August in town found an unusual number of New York men at the clubs, at
the restaurants, at the summer theatres. Men who very seldom shoved
their noses inside the metropolitan oven during the summer baking were
now to be met everywhere and anywhere within the financial district and
without. The sky-perched and magnificent down-town "clubs" were full of
men who under normal circumstances would have remained at Newport,
Lenox, Bar Harbor, or who at least would have spent the greater portion
of the summer on their yachts or their Long Island estates.
And in every man's hand or pocket was a newspaper.
They were scarcely worth reading for mere pleasure, these New York
newspapers; indeed, there was scarcely anything in them to read except a
daily record of the steady decline in securities of every description;
paragraphs noting the passing of dividends; columns setting forth
minutely the opinions of very wealthy men concerning the business
outlook; chronicles in detail of suits brought against railroads and
against great industrial corporations; accounts of inquiries by State
and by Federal authorities into combinations resulting in an alleged
violation of various laws.
Here and there a failure of some bucket-branded broker was noted--the
reports echoing like the first dropping shots along the firing line.
Even to the most casual and uninterested outsider it was evident that
already the metropolis was under a tension; that the tension was
increasing almost imperceptibly day by day; that there seemed to be no
very clear idea as to the reason of it, only a confused apprehension, an
apparently unreassuring fear of some grotesque danger ahead, which daily
reading of the newspapers was not at all calculated to allay.
Of course there were precise reasons for impending trouble given and
reiterated by those amateurs of finance and politics whose opinions are
at the disposal of the newspaper-reading public.
Prolixity characterised these solemn utterances, packed full of cant
phrases such as "undigested securities" and "the treacherous attack on
the nation's integrity."
Two principal reasons were given for the local financial uneasiness; and
the one made the other ridiculous--first, that the nation's Executive
was mad as Nero and had deliberately begun a senseless holocaust
involving the entire nation; the other that a "panic" was due, anyway.
It resembled the logic of the White Queen of immortal memory, who began
screaming before she pricked her finger in order to save herself any
emotion after the pin had drawn blood.
Men knew in their hearts that there was no real reason for impending
trouble; that this menace was an unreal thing, intangible, without
substance--only a shadow cast by their own assininity.
Yet shadows can be made real property when authority so ordains. Because
there was once a man with a donkey who met a stranger in the desert.
The stranger bargained for and bought the donkey; the late owner shoved
the shekels into his ample pockets and sat down in the mule's shadow to
escape the sun; and the new owner brought suit to recover the rent due
him for the occupation of the shadow cast by his donkey.
There was also a mule which waited seven years to kick.
There are asses and mules and all sorts of shadows. The ordinance of
authority can affect only the shadow; the substance is immutable.
Among other serious gentlemen of consideration and means who had been
unaccustomed to haunt the metropolis in the dog days was Colonel
Alexander Mallett, President of the Half Moon Trust Company, and
incidentally Duane's father.
His town-house was still open, although his wife and daughter were in
the country. To it, in the comparative cool of the August evenings, came
figures familiar in financial circles; such men as Magnelius Grandcourt,
father of Delancy; and Remsen Tappan, and James Cray.
Others came and went, men of whom Duane had read in the newspapers--very
great men who dressed very simply, very powerful men who dressed
elaborately; and some were young and red-faced with high living, and one
was damp of hair and long-nosed, with eyes set a trifle too close
together; and one fulfilled every external requisite for a "good
fellow"; and another was very old, very white, with a nut-cracker jaw
and faded eyes, blue as an unweaned pup's, and a cream-coloured wig
curled glossily over waxen ears and a bloodless and furrowed neck.
All these were very great men; but they and Colonel Mallett journeyed at
intervals into the presence of a greater man who inhabited, all alone,
except for a crew of a hundred men, an enormous yacht, usually at
anchor off the white masonry cliffs of the seething city.
All alone this very great man inhabited the huge white steamer; and they
piped him fore and they piped him aft and they piped him over the side.
Many a midnight star looked down at the glowing end of his black cigar;
many a dawn shrilled with his boatswain's whistle. He was a very, very
great man; none was greater in New York town.
It was said of him that he once killed a pompous statesman--by ridicule:
"I know who you are!" panted a ragged urchin, gazing up in awe as the
famous statesman approached his waiting carriage.
"And who am I, my little man?"
"You are the great senator from New York."
"Yes--you are right. But"--and he solemnly pointed his gloved
forefinger toward heaven--"but, remember, there is One even greater than
I."
Duane had heard the absurd lampoon as a child, and one evening late in
August, smoking his after-dinner cigar beside his father in the empty
conservatory, he recalled the story, which had been one of his father's
favorites.
But Colonel Mallett scarcely smiled, scarcely heard; and his son watched
him furtively. The trim, elastic figure was less upright this summer;
the close gray hair and cavalry mustache had turned white very rapidly
since spring. For the first time, too, in all his life, Colonel Mallett
wore spectacles; and the thin gold rims irritated his ears and the
delicate bridge of his nose. Under his pleasant eyes the fine skin had
darkened noticeably; thin new lines had sprung downward from the
nostrils' clean-cut wings; but the most noticeable change was in his
hands, which were no longer firm and fairly smooth, but were now the
hands of an old man, restless if not tremulous, unsteady in handling the
cigar which, unnoticed, had gone out.
They--father and son--had never been very intimate. An excellent
understanding had always existed between them with nothing deeper in it
than a natural affection and an instinctive respect for each other's
privacy.
This respect now oppressed Duane because long habit, and the understood
pact, seemed to bar him from a sympathy and a practical affection which,
for the first time, it seemed to him his father might care for.
That his father was worried was plain enough; but how anxious and with
how much reason, he had hesitated to ask, waiting for some voluntary
admission, or at least some opening, which the older man never gave.
That night, however, he had tried an opening for himself, offering the
old stock story which had always, heretofore, amused his father. And
there had been no response.
In silence he thought the matter over; his sympathy was always quick; it
hurt him to remain aloof when there might be a chance that he could help
a little.
"It may amuse you," he said carelessly, "to know how much I've made
since I came back from Paris."
The elder man looked up preoccupied. His son went on:
"What you set aside for me brings me ten thousand a year, you know. So
far I haven't touched it. Isn't that pretty good for a start?"
Colonel Mallett sat up straighter with a glimmer of interest in his
eyes.
Duane went on, checking off on his fingers:
"I got fifteen hundred for Mrs. Varick's portrait, the same for Mrs.
James Cray's, a thousand each for portraits of Carl and Friedrich
Gumble; that makes five thousand. Then I had three thousand for the
music-room I did for Mrs. Ellis; and Dinklespiel Brothers, who handle my
pictures, have sold every one I sent; which gives me twelve thousand so
far."
"I am perfectly astonished," murmured his father.
Duane laughed. "Oh, I know very well that sheer merit had nothing much
to do with it. The people who gave me orders are all your friends. They
did it as they might have sent in wedding presents; I am your son; I
come back from Paris; it's up to them to do something. They've done
it--those who ever will, I expect--and from now on it will be
different."
"They've given you a start," said his father.
"They certainly have done that. Many a brilliant young fellow, with more
ability than I, eats out his heart unrecognised, sterilised for lack of
what came to me because of your influence."
"It is well to look at it in that way for the present," said his father.
He sat silent for a while, staring through the dusk at the lighted
windows of houses in the rear. Then:
"I have meant to say, Duane, that I--we"--he found a little difficulty
in choosing his words--"that the Trust Company's officers feel that, for
the present, it is best for them to reconsider their offer that you
should undertake the mural decoration of the new building."
"Oh," said Duane, "I'm sorry!--but it's all right, father."
"I told them you'd take it without offence. I told them that I'd tell
you the reason we do not feel quite ready to incur, at this moment, any
additional expenses."
"Everybody is economising," said Duane cheerfully, "so I understand. No
doubt--later----"
"No doubt," said his father gravely.
The son's attitude was careless, untroubled; he dropped one long leg
over the other knee, and idly examining his cigar, cast one swift level
look at the older man:
"Father?"
"Yes, my son."
"I--it just occurred to me that if you happen to have any temporary use
for what you very generously set aside for me, don't stand on ceremony."
There ensued a long silence. It was his bedtime when Colonel Mallett
stirred in his holland-covered armchair and stood up.
"Thank you, my son," he said simply; they shook hands and separated; the
father to sleep, if he could; the son to go out into the summer night,
walk to his nearest club, and write his daily letter to the woman he
loved:
    "Dear, it is not at all bad in town--not that murderous, humid heat
    that you think I'm up against; and you must stop reproaching
    yourself for enjoying the delicious breezes in the Adirondacks.
    Women don't know what a jolly time men have in town. Follows the
    chronical of this August day:
    "I had your letter; that is breeze enough for me; it was all full of
    blue sky and big white clouds and the scent of Adirondack pines.
    Isn't it jolly for you and Kathleen to be at the Varicks' camp! And
    what a jolly crowd you've run into.
    "I note what you say about your return to the Berkshires, and that
    you expect to be at Berkshire Pass Inn with the motor on Monday.
    Give my love to Naïda; I know you three and young Montross will have
    a bully tour through the hill country.
    "I also note your red-pencil cross at the top of the page--which
    always gives me, as soon as I open a letter of yours, the assurance
    that all is still well with you and that victory still remains with
    you. Thank God! Stand steady, little girl, for the shadows are
    flying and the dawn is ours.
    "After your letter, breakfast with father--a rather silent one. Then
    he went down-town in his car and I walked to the studio. It's one of
    those stable-like studios which decorate the cross-streets in the
    50's, but big enough to work in.
    "A rather bothersome bit of news: the Trust Company reconsiders its
    commission; and I have three lunettes and three big mural panels
    practically completed. For a while I'll admit I had the blues, but,
    after all, some day the Trust Company is likely to take up the thing
    again and give me the commission. Anyway, I've had a corking time
    doing the things, and lots of valuable practice in handling a big
    job and covering large surfaces; and the problem has been most
    exciting and interesting because, you see, I've had to solve it,
    taking into consideration the architecture and certain fixed keys
    and standards, such as the local colour and texture of the marble
    and the limitations of the light area. Don't turn up your pretty
    nose; it's all very interesting.
    "I didn't bother about luncheon; and about five I went to the club,
    rather tired in my spinal column and arm-weary.
    "Nobody was there whom you know except Delancy Grandcourt and
    Dysart. The latter certainly looks very haggard. I do not like him
    personally, as you know, but the man looks ill and old and the
    papers are becoming bolder in what they hint at concerning him and
    the operations he was, and is still supposed to be, connected with;
    and it is deplorable to see such a physical change in any human
    being, guilty or innocent. I do not like to see pain; I never did.
    For Dysart I have no use at all, but he is suffering, and it is
    difficult to contemplate any suffering unmoved.
    "There was a letter at the club for me from Scott. He says he's
    plugging away at the Rose-beetle's life history as a hors-d'oeuvre
    before tackling the appetising problem of his total extermination.
    Dear old Scott! I never thought that the boy I fought in your garden
    would turn into a spectacled savant. Or that his sister would prove
    to be the only inspiration and faith and hope that life holds for
    me!
    "I talked to Delancy. He is a good young man, as you've always
    insisted. I know one thing; he's high-minded and gentle. Dysart has
    a manner of treating him which is most offensive, but it only
    reflects discredit on Dysart.
    "Delancy told me that Rosalie is hostess in her own cottage this
    month and has asked him up. I heard him speaking rather diffidently
    to Dysart about it, and Dysart replied that he didn't 'give a damn
    who went to the house,' as he wasn't going.
    "So much for gossip; now a fact or two: my father is plainly worried
    over the business outlook; and he's quite alone in the house; and
    that is why I don't go back to Roya-Neh just now and join your
    brother. I could do plenty of work there. Scott writes that the new
    studio is in good shape for me. What a generous girl you are! Be
    certain that at the very first opportunity I will go and occupy it
    and paint, no doubt, several exceedingly remarkable pictures in it
    which will sell for enormous prices and enable us to keep a
    maid-of-all-work when we begin our ménage!
    "Father has retired--poor old governor--it tears me all to pieces to
    see him so silent and listless. I am here at the club writing this
    before I go home to bed. Now I am going. Good-night, my beloved.
                                                              "DUANE."
    "P.S.--An honour, or the chance of it, has suddenly confronted me,
    surprising me so much that I don't really dare to believe that it
    can possibly happen to me--at least not for years. It is this: I met
    Guy Wilton the other day; you don't know him, but he is a most
    charming and cultivated man, an engineer. I lunched with him at the
    Pyramid--that bully old club into which nothing on earth can take a
    man who has not distinguished himself in his profession. It is
    composed of professional and business men, the law, the army, navy,
    diplomatic and consular, the arts and sciences, and usually the
    chief executive of the nation.
    "During luncheon Wilton said: 'You ought to be in here. You are the
    proper timber.'
    "I was astounded and told him so.
    "He said: 'By the way, the president of the Academy of Design is
    very much impressed with some work of yours he has seen. I've heard
    him, and other artists, also, discussing some pictures of yours
    which were exhibited in a Fifth Avenue gallery.'
    "Well, you know, Geraldine, the breath was getting scarcer in my
    lungs every minute and I hadn't a word to say. And do you know what
    that trump of a mining engineer did? He took me about after luncheon
    and I met a lot of very corking old ducks and some very eminent and
    delightful younger ducks, and everybody was terribly nice, and the
    president of the Academy, who is startlingly young and amiable, said
    that Guy Wilton had spoken about me, and that it was customary that
    when anybody was proposed for membership, a man of his own
    profession should do it.
    "And I looked over the club list and saw Billy Van Siclen's name,
    and now what do you think! Billy has proposed me, Austin, the marine
    painter, has seconded me, and no end of men have written in my
    behalf--professors, army men, navy men, business friends of
    father's, architects, writers--and I'm terribly excited over it,
    although my excitement has plenty of time to cool because it's a
    fearfully conservative club and a man has to wait years, anyway.
    "This is the very great honour, dear, for it is one even to be
    proposed for the Pyramid. I know you will be happy over it.
                                                               "D."
The weather became hotter toward the beginning of September; his studio
was almost unendurable, nor was the house very much better.
To eat was an effort; to sleep a martyrdom. Night after night he rose
from his hot pillows to stand and listen outside his father's door; but
the old endure heat better than the young, and very often his father was
asleep in the stifling darkness which made sleep for him impossible.
The usual New York thunder-storms rolled up over Staten Island, covered
the southwest with inky gloom, veined the horizon with lightning, then
burst in spectacular fury over the panting city, drenched it to its
steel foundations, and passed on rumbling up the Hudson, leaving
scarcely any relief behind it.
In one of these sudden thunder-storms he took refuge in a rather modest
and retired restaurant just off Fifth Avenue; and it being the luncheon
hour he made a convenience of necessity and looked about for a table,
and discovered Rosalie Dysart and Delancy Grandcourt en tête-à-tête over
their peach and grapefruit salad.
There was no reason why they should not have been there; no reason why
he should have hesitated to speak to them. But he did hesitate--in fact,
was retiring by the way he came, when Rosalie glanced around with that
instinct which divines a familiar presence, gave him a startled look,
coloured promptly to her temples, and recovered her equanimity with a
smile and a sign for him to join them. So he shook hands, but remained
standing.
"We ran into town in the racer this morning," she explained. "Delancy
had something on down-town and I wanted to look over some cross-saddles
they made for me at Thompson's. Do be amiable and help us eat our salad.
What a ghastly place town is in September! It's bad enough in the
country this year; all the men wear long faces and mutter dreadful
prophecies. Can you tell me, Duane, what all this doleful talk is
about?"
"It's about something harder to digest than this salad. The public
stomach is ostrichlike, but it can't stand the water-cure. Which is all
Arabic to you, Rosalie, and I don't mean to be impertinent, only the
truth is I don't know why people are losing confidence in the financial
stability of the country, but they apparently are."
"There's a devilish row on down-town," observed Delancy, blinking, as an
unusually heavy clap of thunder rattled the dishes.
"What kind of a row?" asked Duane.
"Greensleeve & Co. have failed, with liabilities of a million and
microscopical assets."
Rosalie raised her eyebrows; Greensleeve & Co. were once brokers for her
husband if she remembered correctly. Duane had heard of them but was
only vaguely impressed.
"Is that rather a bad thing?" he inquired.
"Well--I don't know. It made a noise louder than that thunder. Three
banks fell down in Brooklyn, too."
"What banks?"
Delancy named them; it sounded serious, but neither Duane nor Rosalie
were any wiser.
"The Wolverine Mercantile Loan and Trust Company closed its doors,
also," observed Delancy, dropping the tips of his long, highly coloured
fingers into his finger-bowl as though to wash away all personal
responsibility for these financial flip-flaps.
Rosalie laughed: "This is pleasant information for a rainy day," she
said. "Duane, have you heard from Geraldine?"
"Yes, to-day," he said innocently; "she is leaving Lenox this morning
for Roya-Neh. I hear that there is to be some shooting there Christmas
week. Scott writes that the boar and deer are increasing very fast and
must be kept down. You and Delancy are on the list, I believe."
Rosalie nodded; Delancy said: "Miss Seagrave has been good enough to ask
the family. Yours is booked, too, I fancy."
"Yes, if my father only feels up to it. Christmas at Roya-Neh ought to
be a jolly affair."
"Christmas anywhere away from New York ought to be a relief," observed
young Grandcourt drily.
They laughed without much spirit. Coffee was served, cigarettes lighted.
Presently Grandcourt sent a page to find out if the car had returned
from the garage where Rosalie had sent it for a minor repair.
The car was ready, it appeared; Rosalie retired to readjust her hair and
veil; the two men standing glanced at one another:
"I suppose you know," said Delancy, reddening with embarrassment, "that
Mr. and Mrs. Dysart have separated."
"I heard so yesterday," said Duane coolly.
