nothing less than that fate had selected this spot for the reckoning.
She could topple down his carefully reared schemes with the same ease
with which he had blown over hers.  And to him these schemes were life
to his breath and salt to his blood, everything.  What was one woman?
cynically.  "Yes, it is I," in the tongue native to them both.
"And what do you here?"
"I am Admiral Killigrew's private secretary."  He wet his lips.  He was
not so strong before this woman as he had expected to be.  The glamour
of the old days was faintly rekindled at the sight of her.  And she
was beautiful.
"Then, this is the house?" in a whisper.
"It is."
"You terrify me!"
"Hildegarde, this is your scheme," shrugging.  "Tell them all you know;
break me, ruin me.  Here is a fair opportunity for revenge."
"God forbid!" she cried with a shiver.  "Were you guilty of all crimes,
I could only remember that once I loved you."
"You shame me," he replied frankly, but with infinite relief.  "You
have outdone me in magnanimity.  Will you forgive me?"
"Oh, yes.  Forgiveness is one of the few things you men can not rob us
of."  She spoke without bitterness, but her eyes were dim and her lips
dropped.  "What shall we do?  They must not know that we have met."
"Cathewe knows," moodily.
"I had forgotten!"
"I leave all in your hands.  Do what you will.  If you break me--and
God knows well that you can do it--it would be only an act of justice.
I have been a damned scoundrel; I am man enough to admit of that."
She saw his face more clearly now.  Time had marked it.  There were new
lines at the corners of his eyes and the cheek-bones were more
prominent.  Perhaps he had suffered too.  "You will always have the
courage to do," she said, "right or wrong in a great manner."
"Am I wrong to seek--"
"Hush!  I know.  It is what you must thrust aside or break to reach it,
Karl.  The thing itself is not wrong, but you will go about it wrongly.
You can not help that."
He did not reply.  Perhaps she was right.  Indeed, was she not herself
an example of it?  If there was one thing in his complex career that he
regretted more than another it was the deception of this woman.  He did
not possess the usual vanity of the sex; there was nothing here to be
proud of; his dream of conquest was not over the kingdom of women.
"Some one is coming," he said, listening.
"Leave it all to me."
"Ah! . . ." with a hand toward her.
"Do not say it.  I understand the thought.  If only you loved me, you
would say!" the iron in her voice unmistakable.
He let his hand fall.  He was sorry.
Presently the others made their entrance upon the scene, a singular
anticlimax.  The admiral rang for the cocktails.  Introductions
followed.
"Is it not strange?" said the singer to Laura.  "I stole in here to
look at the trophies, when I discovered Mr. Breitmann whom I once knew
in Munich."
"Mr. Cathewe," said the young hostess, "this is Mr. Breitmann, who is
aiding father in the compilation of his book."
"Mr. Breitmann and I have met before," said Cathewe soberly.
The two men bowed.  Cathewe never gave his hand to any but his
intimates.  But Laura, who was not aware of this ancient reserve,
thought that both of them showed a lack of warmth.  And Fitzgerald, who
was watching all comers now, was sure that the past of his friend and
Breitmann interlaced in some way.
"So, young man," said Mrs. Coldfield, a handsome motherly woman, "you
have had the impudence to let five years pass without darkening my
doors.  What excuse have you?"
"I'm guilty of anything you say," Fitzgerald answered humbly.  "What
shall be my punishment?"
"You shall take Miss Laura in and I shall sit at your left."
"For my sins it shall be as you say.  But, really, I have been so
little in New York," he added.
"I forgive you simply because you have not made a failure of your
mother's son.  And you look like her, too."  It is one of the
privileges of old persons to compare the young with this or that parent.
"You are flattering me.  Dad used to say that I was as homely as a
hedge-fence."
"Now you're fishing, and I'm too old a fish to rise to such a cast."
"I heard you sing in Paris a few years ago," said M. Ferraud.
"Yes?"  Hildegarde von Mitter wondered who this little man could be.
"And you sing no more?"
"No.  The bird has flown; only the woman remains."  They were at the
table now, and she absently plucked the flowers beside her plate.
"Ah, to sing as you did, and then to disappear, to vanish!  You had no
right to do so.  You belonged to the public," animatedly.
"The public is always selfish; it always demands more than any single
person can give to it.  Pardon?" she said as Cathewe leaned to speak to
her.  "I did not hear."
M. Ferraud nibbled his crisp celery.
"I asked, what will you do?" repeated Cathewe for her ear only.
"What do you mean?"
"Did you know that he was here?"
"I should not have been seated at this table had I known."
"Some day you are going to tell me all about it," he asserted; "and you
are going to smile when you answer me."
"Thank you.  I forgot.  My dear friend, I am never going to tell you
all about it.  Why did you not come first?" her voice vibrating.
"You still love him."
"That is not kind," striving hard to keep the smile on her trembling
lips.  "Oh, I beg of you, do not make this friendship impossible.  Do
not rob me of the one man I trust."
Cathewe motioned aside the fish and reached for his sauterne.  "I have
loved you faithfully and loyally for seven years.  I have tried to win
you by all those roads a man may honorably traverse in quest of the one
woman.  For seven years; and for something like three I have stayed
away at your command.  Will you believe it?  Sometimes my hands ache
for his throat . . .  Smile, they are looking."
It was a crooked smile.  "Why did I ever tell you?"
"Why did you ever tell me . . . only part?  It is the other part I wish
to know.  Till I learn what that is I shall never leave you.  You will
find that there is a difference between love and infatuation."
"As I have never known infatuation I can not tell the difference.  Now,
no more, unless you care to see me break down before them.  For if you
tell me that you have loved me seven years, I have loved him eight,"
cruelly, for Cathewe was pressing her cruelly.
"Devil take him!  What do you find in the man?"
"What do you find in me?" her eyes filled with anger.
"Forgive me, Hildegarde; I am blind and mad to-night.  I did not expect
to find him here either."
Breitmann had tried ineffectually to read their lips.  She had given
her word, and once given, he knew of old that she never broke it; but
he was keenly alive that in some way he was the topic of the inaudible
conversation.  As he sat here to-night he knew why he had never loved
Hildegarde, why in fact, he had never loved any woman.  The one great
passion which comes in the span of life was centered in the girl beside
him, dividing her moments between him and Fitzgerald.  Strange, but he
had not known it till he saw the two women together.  For once his nice
calculations had ceased to run smoothly; there appeared now a knot in
the thread for which he saw no untying.
"You do not sing now?" asked Laura across the table.
"No," Hildegarde answered, "my voice is gone."
"Oh, I am so sorry."
"It does not matter.  I can hum a little to myself; there is yet some
pleasure in that.  But in opera, no, never again.  Has not Mrs.
Coldfield told you?  No?  Imagine!  One night in Dresden, in the middle
of the aria, my voice broke miserably and I could not go on."
"And her heart nearly broke with it," interposed Mrs. Coldfield, with
the best intentions, nearer the truth than she knew.  "I am sorry,
Laura, that I never told you before."
Hildegarde laughed.  "Sooner or later this must happen.  I worked too
hard, perhaps.  At any rate, the opera will know me no more."
There was the hard blue of flint in Cathewe's eyes as they met and held
Breitmann's.  There was a duel, and the latter was routed.  But hate
burned fiercely in the breast against the man who could compel him to
lower his eyes.  Some day he would pay back that glance.
Now, M. Ferraud had missed nothing.  He twisted the talk into other
channels with his usual adroitness, but all the while there was
bubbling in his mind the news that these two men had met before.  The
history of Hildegarde von Mitter was known to him.  But how much did
she know, or this man Cathewe?  The woman was a thoroughbred.  He,
Anatole Ferraud, knew; it was his business to know; and that she should
happen upon the scene he considered as one of these rare good pieces of
luck that fall to the lot of few.  There would be something more than
treasure hunting here; an intricate comedy-drama, with as many
well-defined sides as a diamond.  He ate his endive with pleasure and
sipped the old yellow Pol Roger with his eyes beaming toward the
gods.  To be, after a fashion, the prompter behind the scenes; to be
able to read the final line before the curtain!  Butterflies and
butterflies and pins and pins.
Did Laura note any of the portentous glances, those exchanged between
the singer and Cathewe and Breitmann?  Perhaps.  At all events she felt
a curiosity to know how long Hildegarde von Mitter had known her
father's secretary.  There was no envy in her heart as again she
acknowledged the beauty of the other woman; moreover, she liked her and
was going to like her more.  Impressions were made upon her almost
instantly, for good or bad, and rarely changed.
She turned oftenest to Fitzgerald, for he made particular effort to
entertain, and he succeeded better than he dreamed.  It kept turning
over in her mind what a whimsical, capricious, whirligig was at work.
It was droll, this man at her side, chatting to her as if he had known
her for years, when, seven or eight days ago, he had stood, a man all
unknown to her, on a city corner, selling plaster of Paris statuettes
on a wager; and but for Mrs. Coldfield, she had passed him for ever.
Out upon the prude who would look askance at her for harmless daring!
"Drop into my room before you turn in," urged Fitzgerald to Cathewe.
"That I shall, my boy.  I've some questions to ask of you."
But a singular idea came into creation, and this was for him, Cathewe,
to pay Breitmann a visit on the way to Fitzgerald's room.  Not one man
in a thousand would have dared put this idea into a plan of action.
But neither externals nor conventions deterred Cathewe when he sought a
thing.  He rapped lightly on the door of the secretary's room.
"Come in."
Cathewe did so, gently closing the door behind him.  Breitmann was in
his shirt-sleeves.  He rose from his chair and laid down his cigarette.
A faint smile broke the thin line of his mouth.  He waited for his
guest, or, rather, this intruder, to break the silence.  And as Cathewe
did not speak at once, there was a tableau during which each was
speculatively busy with the eyes.
"The vicissitudes of time," said Cathewe, "have left no distinguishable
marks upon you."
Breitmann bowed.  He remained standing.
And Cathewe had no wish to sit.  "I never expected to see you in this
house."
"A compliment which I readily return."
"A private secretary; I never thought of you in that capacity."
"One must take what one can," tranquilly.
"A good precept."  Cathewe rolled the ends of his mustache, a trifle
perplexed how to put it.  "But there should be exceptions.  What," and
his voice became crisp and cold, "what was Hildegarde von Mitter to
you?"
"And what is that to you?"
"My question first."
"I choose not to answer it."
Again they eyed each other like fencers.
"Were you married?"
Breitmann laughed.  Here was his opportunity to wring this man's heart;
for he knew that Cathewe loved the woman.  "You seem to be in her
confidence.  Ask her."
"A poltroon would say as much.  There is a phase in your make-up I have
never fully understood.  Physically you are a brave man, but morally
you are a cad and a poltroon."
"Take care!"  Breitmann stepped forward menacingly.
"There will be no fisticuffs," contemptuously.
"Not if you are careful.  I have answered your questions; you had
better leave at once."
"She is loyal to you.  It was not her voice that broke that night; it
was her heart, you have some hold over her."
"None that she can not throw off at any time."  Breitmann's mind was
working strangely.
"If she would have me I would marry her tomorrow," went on Cathewe,
playing openly, "I would marry her to-morrow, priest or protestant, for
her religion would be mine."
There was a spark of admiration in Breitmann's eyes.  This man Cathewe
was out of the ordinary.  Well, as for that, so was he himself.  He
walked silently to the door and opened it, standing aside for the other
to pass.  "She is perfectly free.  Marry her.  She is all and more than
you wish her to be.  Will you go now?"
Cathewe bowed and turned on his heel.  Breitmann had really got the
better of him.
A peculiar interview, and only two strong men could have handled it in
so few words.  Not a word above normal tones; once or twice only, in
the flutter of the eyelids or in the gesture of the hands, was there
any sign that had these been primitive times the two would have gone
joyously at each other's throats.
"I owed her that much," said Breitmann as he locked the door.
"It did not matter at all to me," was Cathewe's thought, as he knocked
on Fitzgerald's door and heard his cheery call, "I only wanted to know
what sort of man he is."
"Oh, I really don't know whether I like him or not," declared
Fitzgerald.  "I have run across him two or three times, but we were
both busy.  He has told me a little about himself.  He's been knocked
about a good deal.  Has a title, but doesn't use it."
"A title?  That is news to me.  Probably it is true."
"I was surprised to learn that you knew him at all."
"Not very well.  Met him in Munich mostly."
A long pause.
"Isn't Miss Killigrew just rippin'?  There's a comrade for some man.
Lucky devil, who gets her!  She is new to me every day."
"I think I warned you."
"You were a nice one, never to say a word that you knew the admiral!"
"Are you complaining?"
Fitzgerald laughed; no not exactly; he wasn't complaining.
"You remember the caravan trails in the Lybian desert; the old ones on
the way to Khartoum?  The pathway behind her is like that, marked with
the bleached bones of princely and ducal and common hopes."  Cathewe
stretched out in his chair.  "Since she was eighteen, Jack, she has
crossed the man-trail like a sandstorm, and quite as innocently, too."
"Oh, rot!  I'm no green and salad youth."
"Your bones will be only the tougher, that's all."
Another pause.
"But what's your opinion regarding Breitmann?"
Cathewe laced his fingers and bent his chin on them.  "There's a great
rascal or a great hero somewhere under his skin."
CHAPTER XV
THEY GO A-SAILING
Five o'clock in the afternoon, and a mild blue sea flashing under the
ever-deepening orange of the falling sun.  Golden castles and gray
castles and castles of shadowed-white billowed in the east; turrets
rose and subsided and spires of cloud-cities formed and re-formed.  The
yacht Laura, sleek and swan-white, her ensign and colors folding and
unfolding, lifting and sinking, as the shore breeze stirred them, was
making ready for sea; and many of the villagers had come down to the
water front to see her off.  Very few sea-going vessels, outside of
freighters, ever stopped in this harbor; and naturally the departures
of the yacht were events equalled only by her arrivals.  The railroad
station was close to the wharves, and the old sailors hated the sight
of the bright rails; for the locomotive had robbed them of the
excitement of the semi-weekly packets that used to coast up and down
between New York and Philadelphia.
"Wonder what poor devil of a pirate is going to have his bones turned
over this trip?" said the station-agent to Mr. Donovan, who, among
others on the station platform, watched the drab anchor as it clanked
jerkily upward to the bows, leaving a swivel and a boil on the waters
which had released it so grudgingly.
"I guess it ain't goin' t' be any ol' pirate this time," replied Mr.
Donovan, with a pleasurable squeeze of the pocket-book over his heart.
"Well, I hope he finds what he's going after," generously.  "He is the
mainstay of this old one-horse town.  Say, she's a beauty, isn't she?
Why, man, that anchor alone is worth more than we make in four months.
And think of the good things to eat and drink.  If I had a million, no
pirates or butterflies for mine.  I'd hie me to Monte Carlo and bat the
tiger all over the place."
Mr. Donovan knew nothing definite about Monte Carlo, but he would have
liked to back up against some of those New York contractors on their
own grounds.
"Hi!  There she goes.  Good luck!" cried the station-agent, swinging
his hat with gusto.
The yacht swam out gracefully.  There was a freshening blow from the
southwest, but it would take the yacht half an hour to reach the
deep-sea swells outside.  Her whistle blew cheerily and was answered by
the single tug-boat moored to the railroad wharf.  And after that the
villagers straggled back to their various daily concerns.  Even the
landlord of Swan's Hotel sighed as he balanced up his books.  Business
would be slack for some days to come.
The voyagers were gathered about the stern-rail and a handkerchief or
two fluttered in the wind.  For an hour they tarried there, keeping in
view the green-wooded hills and the white cottages nestling at their
base.  And turn by turn there were glimpses of the noble old house at
the top of the hill.  And some looked upon it for the last time.
"I've had a jolly time up there," said Fitzgerald.  The gulls swooped,
as they crossed and recrossed the milky wake.  "Better time than I
deserved."
"Are you still worried about that adventure?" Laura demanded.  "Dismiss
it from your mind and let it be as if we had known each other for many
years."
"Do you really mean that?"
"To be sure I do," promptly.  "I have stepped to the time of convention
so much that a lapse once in a while is a positive luxury.  But Mrs.
Coldfield had given me a guaranty before I addressed you, so the
adventure was only a make-believe one after all."
There never was a girl quite like this one.  He purloined a sidelong
glance at her which embraced her wholly, from the chic gray cap on the
top of her shapely head to the sensible little boots on her feet.  She
wore a heavy, plaid coat, with deep pockets into which her hands were
snugly buried; and she stood braced against the swell and the wind
which was turning out strong and cold.  The rich pigment in the blood
mantled her cheeks and in her eyes there was still a bit of captive
sunshine.  He knew now that what had been only a possibility was an
assured fact.  Never before had he cursed his father's friends, but he
did so now, silently and earnestly; for their pilfering fingers and
their plausible lies had robbed his father's son of a fine inheritance.
Money.  Never had he desired it so keenly.  A few weeks ago it had
meant the wherewithal to pay his club-dues and to support a decent
table when he traveled.  Now it was everything; for without it he never
could dare lift his eyes seriously to this lovely picture so close to
him, let alone dream of winning her.  He recalled Cathewe's light
warning about the bones of ducal hopes.  What earthly chance had he?
Unconsciously he shrugged.
"You are shrugging!" she cried, noting the expression; for, if he was
secretly observing her, she was surreptitiously contemplating his own
advantages.
"Did I shrug?"
"You certainly did."
"Well," candidly, "it was the thought of money that made me do it."
"I detest it, too."
"Good heavens, I didn't say I detested it!  What I shrugged about was
my own dreary lack of it."
"Bachelors do not require much."
"That's true; but I no longer desire to remain a bachelor."  The very
thing that saved him was the added laughter, forced, miserably forced.
Fool!  The words had slipped without his thinking.
"Gracious!  That sounds horribly like a proposal."  She beamed upon him
merrily.
And his heart sank, for he had been earnest enough, for all his
blunder.  Manlike, he did not grasp the fact that under the
circumstance merriment was all she could offer him, if she would save
him from his own stupidity.
"But I do hate money," she reaffirmed.
"I shouldn't.  Think of what it brings."
"I do; begging letters, impostures, battle-scarred titles, humbugging
shop-keepers, and perhaps one honest friend in a thousand.  And if I
married a title, what equivalent would I get for my money, to put it
brutally?  A chateau, which I should have to patch up, and tolerance
from my husband's noble friends.  Not an engaging prospect."
She threw a handful of biscuit to the gulls, and there was fighting and
screaming almost in touch of the hands.  Then of a sudden the red rim
of the sun vanished behind the settling landscape, and all the grim
loneliness of the sea rose up to greet them.
"It is lonely; let us go and prepare for dinner.  Look!" pointing to a
bright star far down the east.  "And Corsica lies that way."
"And also madness!" was his thought.
"Oh, it seems not quite true that we are all going a-venturing as they
do in the story-books.  The others think we are just going to Funchal.
Remember, you must not tell.  Think of it; a real treasure, every franc
of which must tell a story of its own; love, heroism and devotion."
"Beautiful!  But there must be a rescuing of princesses and fighting
and all that.  I choose the part of remaining by the princess."
"It is yours."  She tilted back her head and breathed and breathed.
She knew the love of living.
"Lucky we are all good sailors," he said.  "There will be a fair sea on
all night.  But how well she rides!"
"I love every beam and bolt of her."
Shoulder to shoulder they bore forward to the companionway, and
immediately the door banged after them.
Breitmann came out from behind the funnel and walked the deck for a
time.  He had studied the two from his shelter.  What were they saying?
Oh, Fitzgerald was clever and strong and good to look at, but . . . !
Breitmann straightened his arms before him, opened and shut his hands
violently.  Like that he would break him if he interfered with any of
his desires.  It would be fully twenty days before they made Ajaccio.
Many things might happen before that time.
Two or three of the crew were lashing on the rail-canvas, and the snap
and flap of it jarred on Breitmann's nerves.  For a week or more his
nerves had been very close to the surface, so close that it had
required all his will to keep his voice and hands from shaking.  As he
passed, one of the sailors doffed his cap and bowed with great respect.
"That's not the admiral, Alphonse," whispered another of the crew,
chuckling.  "It's only his privit secretary."
"Ah, I haf meestake!"
But Alphonse had made no mistake.  He knew who it was.  His mates did
not see the smile of irony, of sly ridicule, which stirred his lips as
he bowed to the passer.  Immediately his rather handsome effeminate
face resumed a stolid vacuity.
His name was not Alphonse; it was a captious offering by the crew,
which, on this yacht, never went further than to tolerate the addition
of a foreigner to their mess.  He had signed a day or two before
sailing; he had even begged for the honor to ship with Captain
Flanagan; and he gave his name as Pierre Picard, to which he had no
more right than to Alphonse.  As Captain Flanagan was too good a sailor
himself to draw distinctions, he was always glad to add a foreign
tongue to his crew.  You never could tell when its use might come in
handy.  That is why Pierre Picard was allowed to drink his soup in the
forecastle mess.
Breitmann continued on, oblivious to all things save his cogitations.
He swung round the bridge.  He believed that he and Cathewe could
henceforth proceed on parallel lines, and there was much to be grateful
for.  Cathewe was quiet but deep; and he, Breitmann, had knocked about
among that sort and knew that they were to be respected.  In all, he
had made only one serious blunder.  He should never have permitted the
vision of a face to deter him.  He should have taken the things from
the safe and vanished.  It had not been, a matter of compunction.  And
yet . . .  Ah, he was human, whatever his dream might be; and he loved
this American girl with all his heart and mind.  It was not lawless
love, but it was ruthless.  When the time was ripe he would speak.
Only a little while now to wait.  The course had smoothed out, the
sailing was easy.  The man in the chimney no longer bothered him.
Whoever and whatever he was, he had not shot his bolt soon enough.
Hildegarde von Mitter.  He stopped against the rail.  The yacht was
burying her nose now, and the white drift from her cut-water seemed
strangely luminous as it swirled obliquely away in the fading twilight.
Hildegarde von Mitter.  Was she to be the flaw in the chain?  No, no;
there should be no regret; he had steeled his heart against any such
weakness.  She had been necessary, and he would be a fool to pause over
a bit of sentimentality.  Her appearance had disorganized his nerves,
that was all.  Peering into his watch he found that he had only half an
hour before dinner.  And it may be added that he dressed with singular
care.
So did Fitzgerald, for that matter.
It took Cathewe just as long, but he did not make two or three
selections of this or that before finding what he wanted.  He was
engrossed most of the time in the sober contemplation of the rubber
flooring or the running sea outside the port-hole.
And this night Hildegarde von Mitter was meditating on the last throw
for her hopes.  She determined to cast once more the full sun of her
beauty into the face of the man she loved; and if she failed to win,
the fault would not be hers.  Why could she not tear out this maddening
heart of hers and fling it to the sea?  Why could she not turn it
toward the man who loved her?  Why, why?  Why should God make her so
unhappy?  Why such injustice?  Why this twisted interlacing of lives?
And yet, amid all these futile seekings, with subconscious deftness her
hands went on with their appointed work.  Never again would the
splendor of her beauty burn as it did this night.
Laura, alone among them all, went serenely about her toilet.  She was
young, and love had not yet spread its puzzle before her feet.
As for the others, they were on the far side of the hill, whence the
paths are smooth and gentle and the prospect is peacefulness and the
retrospect is dimly rosal.  They dressed as they had done those twenty
odd years, plainly.
On the bridge the first officer was standing at the captain's side.
"Captain," he shouted, "where did you get that Frenchman?"
"Picked him up day before yestiddy.  Speaks fair English an' a bit o'
Dago.  They're allus handy on a pleasure-boat.  He c'n keep off th'
riffraff boatmen.  An' you know what persistent cusses they be in the
Med'terranean.  Why?"
"Oh, nothing, if he's a good sailor.  Notice his hands?"
"Why, no!"
"Soft as a woman's."
"Y' don't say!  Well, we'll see 'em tough enough before we sight
Funchal.  Smells good up here; huh?"
"Yes; but I don't mind three months on land, full pay.  Not me.  But
this Frenchman?"
"Oh, he had good papers from a White Star liner; an' you can leave it
to me regardin' his lily-white hands.  By th' way, George, will you
have them bring up my other leg?  Th' salt takes th' color out o' this
here brass ferrule, an' rubber's safer."
"Yes, sir."
There was one vacant chair in the dining-salon.  M. Ferraud was
indisposed.  He could climb the highest peak, he could cross
ice-ridges, with a sheer mile on either side of him, with never an
attack of vertigo; but this heaving mystery under his feet always got
the better of him the first day out.  He considered it the one flaw in
an otherwise perfect system.  Thus, he misled the comedy and the
tragedy of the eyes at dinner, nor saw a woman throw her all and lose
it.
CHAPTER XVI
CROSS-PURPOSES
"Is there anything I can do for you?" asked Fitzgerald, venturing his
head into M. Ferraud's cabin.
"Nothing; to-morrow it will all be gone.  I am always so.  The
miserable water!"  M. Ferraud drew the blanket under his chin.
"When you are better I should like to ask you some questions."
"My friend, you have been very good.  I promise to tell you all when
the time comes.  It will interest you."
"Breitmann?"
"What makes you think I am interested in Mr. Breitmann?"
Fitzgerald could not exactly tell.  "Perhaps I have noticed you
watching him."
"Ah, you have good eyes, Mr. Fitzgerald.  Have you observed that I have
been watching you also?"
"Yes.  You haven't been quite sure of me."  Fitzgerald smiled a little.
"But you may rest your mind.  I never break my word."
"Nor do I, my friend.  Have patience.  Satan take these small boats!"
He stifled a groan.
"A little champagne?"
"Nothing, nothing; thank you."
"As you will.  Good night."
Fitzgerald shut the door and returned to the smoking-room.  Something
or other, concerning Breitmann; he was sure of it.  What had he done,
or what was he going to do, that France should watch him?  There was no
doubt in his mind now; Breitmann had known of this treasure and had
come to The Pines simply to put his hands on the casket.  M. Ferraud
had tried to forestall him.  This much of the riddle was plain.  But
the pivots upon which these things turned!  There was something more
than a treasure in the balance.  Well, M. Ferraud had told him to wait.
There was nothing else for him to do.
A little rubber at bridge was in progress.  The admiral was playing
with Mrs. Coldfield and Cathewe sat opposite Hildegarde.  The latter
two were losing.  She was ordinarily a skilful player, as Cathewe knew;
but to-night she lost constantly, was reckless with her leads, and
played carelessly into her opponents' hands.  Cathewe watched her
gravely.  Never had he seen her more beautiful; and the apprehension
that she would never be his was like a hand straining over his heart.
Yes, she was beautiful; but he did not know that there was death in her
eyes and death in her smile.  Once upon a time he had believed that her
heart had broken; but she was learning that the heart breaks, rebreaks,
and breaks again.
How many times he stood on the precipice during the dinner hour,
Breitmann doubtless would never be told.  A woman scorned is an old
story; still, the story goes on, retold each day.  Education may smooth
the externals, but underneath the fire burns just as furiously as of
old.  To this affront the average woman's mind leaps at once to
revenge; and that she does not always take it depends upon two things;
opportunity, and love, which is more powerful than revenge.  Sometimes,
on hot summer nights, clouds form angrily in the distance; vivid
flashes dartle hither and about, which serve to intensify the evening
darkness.  Thus, a similar phenomenon was taking place in Hildegarde
von Mitter's mind.  The red fires of revenge danced before her eyes,
blurring the spots, on the cards, the blackness of despair crowding
upon each flash.  Let him beware!  With a word she could shatter his
dream; ay, and so she would.  What! sit there and let him turn the
knife in her heart and receive the pain meekly?  No!  It was the
thoughtless brutality with which he went about this new affair that bit
so poignantly.  To show her, so indurately, that she was nothing, that,
despite her magnificent sacrifice, she had never been more than a
convenience, was maddening.  There was no spontaneity in his heart; his
life was a calculation to which various sums were added or subtracted.
With all her beauty, intellect, genius and generosity, she had not been
able to stir him as this young girl was unconsciously doing.  She held
no animosity for the daughter of her host; she was clear-visioned
enough to put the wrong where it belonged.
"It is your lead," said the admiral patiently.
"Pardon me!" contritely.  The gentle reproach brought her back to the
surroundings.
"It is the motion of the boat," hazarded Cathewe, as he saw her lead
the ace.  "I often find myself losing count in waiting for the next
roll."
"Mr. Cathewe is very kind," she replied.  "The truth is, however, I am
simply stupid to-night."
Breitmann continued to speak lowly to Laura.  He was evidently amusing,
for she smiled frequently.  Nevertheless, she smiled as often upon
Fitzgerald.  Never a glance toward the woman who held his fortunes, as
they both believed, in the hollow of her hand.  Breitmann appeared to
have forgotten her existence.
When the rubber was finished Cathewe came into the breach by suggesting
that they two, he and his partner, should take the air for a while; and
Hildegarde thanked him with her eyes.  They tramped the port side,
saying nothing but thinking much.  His arm was under hers to steady
her, and he could feel the catch each time she breathed, as when one
stifles sobs that are tearless.  Ah, to hold her close and to shield
her; but a thousand arms may not intervene between the heart and the
pain that stabs it.  He knew; he knew all about it, and there was
murder in his thought whenever his thought was of Breitmann.  To be
alone with him somewhere, and to fight it out with their bare hands.
She had been schooled in the art of acting, but not in the art of
dissimulation; she had been of the world without having been worldly;
and sometimes she was as frank and simple as a child.  And worldliness
makes a buffer in times like these.  Cathewe thanked God for his own
shell, toughened as it had been in the war of life.
"Look!" he exclaimed, thankful for the diversion.  "There goes a big
liner for Sandy Hook.  How cheerful she looks with all her lights!
Everybody's busy there.  There will be greetings to-morrow, among the
sundry curses of those who have not declared their Parisian models."
They paused by the rail and followed the great ship till all the lights
had narrowed and melted into one; and then, almost at once, the
limitless circle of pitching black water seemed tenanted by themselves
alone.
Without warning she bent swiftly and kissed the hand which lay upon the
rail.  "How kind you are to me!"
"Oh, pshaw!"  But the touch of her lips shook his soul.
Cathewe was one of those sure, quiet men, a staff to lean on, that a
woman may find once in a life-time.  They are, as a usual thing, always
loving deeply and without success, but always invariably cheerful and
buoyant, genuine philosophers.  They are not given much to writing
sonnets or posing; and they can stand aside with a brave heart as the
other man takes the dream out of their lives.  This is not to affirm
that they do not fight stoutly to hold this dream; simply, that they
accept defeat like good soldiers.  There are many heroes who have never
heard war's alarms.  He knew that the whole heart of Hildegarde von
Mitter had yielded to another.  But it had been thrown, as it were,
against a wall; there was this one hope, dimly burning, that some day
he might catch it on the rebound.
"Why are not all men like you?" she asked.
"The world would not be half so interesting.  Some men shall be
fortunate and others shall not; everything has to balance in some way.
I am necessary to one side of the scales, as a weight."  He spoke with
a levity he by no means felt.
"You are always making sport of yourself."
"Would it be wise to weep?  Not at all.  I laugh because I enjoy it,
just the same as I enjoy hunting or going on voyages of discovery."
"To have met you!" childishly.
"Don't talk like that.  It always makes me less sad than furious.  And
how do you know?  If it had been written that you should care for me,
would any one else have mattered?  No.  It just is, that's all.  So
we'll go on as we have done in the past, good friends.  Call me when
you need me, and wherever I am I shall come."
"How pitifully weak I must seem to you!"
"You would be no happier if you wore a mask.  Hildegarde, what has
happened?  What power has this adventurer over you?  I can not
understand.  He was man enough to say that you were guiltless of any
wrong."
"He said that?" turning upon him sharply.  She could forgive much.
He could not see her face, but by the tone of her voice he knew it had
brightened.  "Yes.  I did a freakish thing the night we arrived at the
Killigrews'.  I forced him into a corner, but it did not pan out as I
hoped.  So far as it touched me, it wasn't necessary, as I have told
you a thousand times.  Your past is nothing to me; your future is
everything, and I want it.  God knows how I want it!  Well, I wished to
find out what kind of man he is, but I wasn't very successful.
Hildegarde," and he pressed his hand down hard over hers, "I could find
a priest the day we land if you would love me.  You will always
remember that."
"As if I could ever forget your kindness!  But you forced him; there is
no merit in such a confession.  And I wonder how you forced him.  It
was not by fear.  Much as I know him there are still some unfilled
pages.  I would call him a scoundrel did I not know that in parts he
has been a hero.  What sacrifices the man has made, and with what
patience!"
"To what end?" quietly.
"No, no, Arthur!  I have promised him."
He took her by the arm roughly.  "Let us make two or three rounds and
go back.  We shan't grow any more cheerful talking this way."
"He loves her.  I saw it in his eyes; and I must stand aside and watch!"
"So must I," he said.  "Aren't you just a little selfish, Hildegarde?"
"I am wretched, Arthur; and I am a fool, besides.  Oh, that I were
cold-blooded like your women, that I could eat out my heart in secret;
but I can't, I can't!"
"But you have courage; only use it.  If what you say of him is true,
rest easy.  She is not in his orbit.  She will not be impressed by an
adventurer of his breed."
"Thank you!" with a broken laugh.  "I am only an opera-singer, here on
suffrance."
"Oh, good Lord!  I did not mean it that way.  Let us finish the walk,"
savagely.
On the afternoon of the second day out, tea was served under the
awning, and Captain Flanagan condescended to leave his bridge for half
an hour.  Through a previous hint dropped by the admiral they lured the
captain into spinning yarns; and well-salted hair-breadth escapes they
were.  He understood that the admiral's guests always expected these
flights, and he was in nowise niggard.  An ordinary sailor would have
been dead these twenty years, under any one of the exploits.
"Marvelous!" said M. Ferraud from the depths of his rugs.  "And he
still lives to tell it?"
"It's the easiest thing in the world, sir, if y' know how," the captain
declared complacently.  Indeed, he had recounted these yarns so many
times that he was beginning to regard them as facts.  His statement,
ambiguous as it was, passed unchallenged, however; for not one had the
daring to inquire whether he referred to the telling or the living of
them.  So he believed that he was looked upon as an apostle of truth.
Only the admiral had the temerity to look his captain squarely in the
eye and wink.
"Captain, would you mind if I put these tales in a book?"  Fitzgerald
put this question with a seriousness which fooled no one but the
captain.
"You come up t' the bridge some afternoon, when we've got a smooth sea,
and I'll give y' some real ones."  The captain's vanity was soothed,
but he was not aware that he had put doubt upon his own veracity.
"That's kind of you."
"An' say!" went on the captain, drinking his tea, not because he liked
it but because it was customary, "I've got a character forwards.  I'm
allus shippin' odds and ends.  Got a Frenchman; hands like a lady."
Breitmann leaned forward, and M. Ferraud sat up.
"Yessir," continued the captain; "speaks I-talyan an' English.  An' if
I ever meets a lady with long soft hands like his'n, I'm for a pert
talk, straightway."
"What's the matter with his hands?" asked the admiral.
"Why, Commodore, they're as soft as Miss Laura's here, an' yet when th'
big Swede who handles th' baggage was a-foolin' with him this mornin',
it was the Swede who begs off.  Nary a callous, an' yet he bowls the
big one round the deck like he was a liner being pierced by a sassy
tug.  An' what gets me is, he knows every bolt from stem to stern, sir,
an' an all-round good sailor int' th' bargain; an' it don' take me
more'n twelve hours t' find that out.  Well, I'm off t' th' bridge.
Good day, ladies."
When he was out of earshot the admiral roared.  "He's the dearest old
liar since Münchhausen."
"Aren't they true stories?" asked Hildegarde.
"Bless you, no!  And he knows we know it, too.  But he tells them so
well that I've never had the courage to sheer him off."
"It's amusing," said Laura; "but I do not think that it's always fair
to him."
"Why, Laura, you're as good a listener as any I know.  Read him a
tract, if you wish."
Breitmann rose presently and sauntered forward, while M. Ferraud
snuggled down in his rugs again.  The others entered into a game of
deck-cricket.
But M. Ferraud was not so ill that he was unable to steal from his
cabin at half after nine, at night, without even the steward being
aware of his departure.  It can not be said that he roamed about the
deck, for whenever he moved it was in the shadow, and always forward.
By and by voices drifted down the wind.  One he knew and expected,
Breitmann's; of the other he was not sure, though the French he spoke
was of classic smoothness.  M. Ferraud was exceedingly interested.  He
had been waiting for this meeting.  Only a phrase or two could be heard
distinctly.  But words were not necessary.  What he desired above all
things was a glimpse of this Frenchman's face.  After several minutes
Breitmann went aft.  M. Ferraud stepped out cautiously, and luck was
with him.  The sailor to whom Breitmann had spoken so earnestly was
lolling against the rail, in the act of lighting a cigarette.  The
light from the match was feeble, but it sufficed the keen eyes of the
watcher.  He gasped a little.  Strong hands indeed!  Here in the garb
of a common sailor, was one of the foremost Orleanists in France!
CHAPTER XVII
A QUESTION FROM KEATS
Breitmann and the admiral usually worked from ten till luncheon, unless
it was too stormy; and then the admiral took the day off.  The business
under hand was of no great moment; it was rather an outlet for the
admiral's energy, and gave him something to look forward to as each day
came round.  Many a morning he longed for the quarter-deck of his old
battle-ship; the trig crew and marines lined up for inspection; the
revelries of the foreign ports; the great manoeuvres; the target
practice.  Never would his old heart swell again under the full-dress
uniform nor his eyes sparkle under the plume of his rank.  He was
retired on half-pay.  Only a few close friends knew how his half-pay
was invested.  There remained perhaps ten of the old war-crew, and
among them every Christmas the admiral's half-pay was divided.  This
and his daughter were the two unalloyed joys of his life.
Since his country had no further use for him, and as it was as
necessary as air to his lungs that he tread the deck of a ship, he had
purchased the Laura; and, when he was not stirring up the bones of
dead pirates, he was at Cowes or at Brest or at Keil or on the Hudson,
wherever the big fellows indulged in mimic warfare.
"That will be all this morning, Mr. Breitmann," he said, rising and
looking out of the port-hole.
"Very well, sir.  I believe that by the time we make Corsica we shall
have the book ready for the printers.  It is very interesting."
"Much obliged.  You have been a good aid.  As you know, I am writing
this rubbish only because it is play and passable mental exercise."
"I do not agree with you there," returned the secretary, with his
pleasant smile.  "The book will be really a treasure of itself.  It is
far more interesting than any romance."
The admiral shook his head dubiously.
"No, no," Breitmann averred.  "There is no flattery in what I say.
Flattery was not in our agreement.  And," with a slight lift of the
jaw, "I never say what I do not honestly mean.  It will be a good book,
and I am proud to have had a hand, however light, in the making."
The admiral chuckled.  "That is the kind of flattery no man may shut
his ears to.  It has been a great pleasure to me; it has kept me
out-of-doors, in the open, where I belong.  Come in, Laura, come in."
The girl stood framed in the low doorway, a charming picture to the old
man and a lovely one to the secretary.  She balanced herself with a
hand on each side of the jam.
"Father, how can you work when the sun is so beautiful outside?  Good
morning, Mr. Breitmann," cordially.
"Good morning."
"Work is over, Laura.  Come in."  The admiral reached forth an arm and
caught her, drawing her gently in and finally to his breast.
Breitmann would have given an eye for that right.  The picture set his
nerves twitching.
"I am not in the way?"
"Not at all," answered the secretary.  "I was just leaving."  And with
good foresight he passed out.
"A thing of beauty is a joy for ever," murmured the admiral.
"Fudge!" and she laughed.
"We are having a fine voyage."
"Splendid!  Why is it that I am always happy?"
"It is because you do not depend upon others for it, my dear.  I am
happy, too.  I am as happy as a boy with his first boat.  But never has
a ship gone slower than this one of mine.  I am simply crazy to drop
anchor in the Gulf of Ajaccio.  I find it on the tip of my tongue,
every night at dinner, to tell the others where we are bound."
"Why not?  Where's the harm now?"
"I don't know, but something keeps it back.  Laura," looking into her
eyes, "did we ever cruise with brighter men on board?"
"What is it you wish to know, father?" merrily.  "You dear old sailor,
don't you understand that these men are different?  They are men who
accomplish things; they haven't time to bother about young women."
"You don't say!" pinching the ear nearest.
"This is the seventh day out, and not one of them has ceased to be
interesting yet."
"Would they cease to be interesting if they proposed?" quizzing.
These two had no unshared secrets.  They were sure of each other.  He
knew that when this child of his divided her affection with another
man, that man would be deserving.
"I would rather have them all as they are.  They make fine comrades."
He sighed thankfully.  "Arthur seems to be out of the race."
"Rather say I am!" with laughter.  "Why, a child could read Arthur
Cathewe's face when he looks at her.  Isn't she simply beautiful?"
"Very.  But there are types and types."
"Am I really pretty?"  Sometimes she grew shy under her father's open
admiration.  She was afraid it was his love rather than his judgment
that made her beautiful in his eyes.
"My child, there's more than one man who will agree with me when I say
that there is no one to compare with you.  You are the living quotation
from Keats."
"I shall kiss you for that."  And straightway she did.
"What do you think of Mr. Breitmann?" soberly.
"He is charming sometimes; but he has a little too much reserve.
Doubtless he sees his position too keenly.  He should not."
"Do you like him?"
"Yes," frankly.
"So do I; and yet there are moments when I do not."  The admiral filled
his pipe carefully.
"But your reason?" surprised.
"That's just the trouble.  I haven't any tangible reason.  The doubt
exists, and I can't explain it.  The sea often looks smooth and mild,
and the sky is cloudless; yet an old sailor will suddenly grow
suspicious; he will see a storm, a heavy blow.  And why, he couldn't
say for the life of him.  Flanagan will tell you."
The girl grew studious and grave.  Had there not been an echo of this
doubt in her own mind?  Immediately she smiled.
"We are talking nonsense and wasting the sunshine."
"How about Fitzgerald?"
"Oh, he's the most sensible of them all.  He proposed to me the first
night out."
"What?"  The admiral dropped his pipe.
"Not so loud!" she warned.  And then the clear music of her laughter
penetrated beyond the cabin; and Fitzgerald, wandering about without
purpose, heard it and paused.
"You minx!" growled the admiral; "to scare your old father like that!"
"Dearest, weren't you fishing to be scared?"
"Let's get out into the sunshine.  I never could get the best of you.
But you really don't mean--"
"I really do not.  He's too busy telling me the plot of this novel he
is going to write to make love to a girl who doesn't want more than one
man in the family, and that's her foolish old father."
And they went outside, arm in arm, laughing together like the good
comrades they were.  M. Ferraud joined them.
"I wish," said he, "that I was a poet."
"What would you do?" she asked.
"I should write a sonnet to your eyebrows this morning, is it not?"
"Mercy, no!  That kind of poetry has long been passé."
"Helas!" mournfully.
It was a beautiful morning, a sharp blue sky and a sea of running
silver; warm, too, for they were bearing away into the southern seas
now.  Every one had sea-legs by this time, and the larder dwindled in a
respectable manner.
Fitzgerald viewed his case dispassionately.  But what to do?  A
thousand times he had argued out the question, with a single result,
that he was a fool for his pains.  He became possessed with sudden
inexplicable longings for land.  He could not get away from this yacht;
on land there would have been a hundred straight lines to the woods and
the fisherman's philosophy.  Things were going directly to one end, and
presently he would have no more power to stem the words.  At least one
thing was certain, the admiral could not drop him overboard.
"The villain?"
He was moved suddenly out of his dream, for the object of it stood
smiling at his side.  A wisp of hair was blowing across her eyes and
she was endeavoring to adjust it under her cap.
"The villain?" making a fine effort to remarshal his thoughts.
"Yes.  We were talking about him last night.  Where did you leave him?"
"He was still pursuing, I believe."
"Why don't you make him a real villain, a man who never kills any one,
but who makes every one unhappy?"
"But that's a problem-villain; what we must have is a romance-villain,
the kind every one is sorry for.  Look at that old Portuguese
man-o'-war," pointing to the crest of a near-by wave.  "Funny little
codger!"
"When do you expect to begin the story on paper?"
"When I have all the material," not afraid of her eyes at that moment.
She propped her elbows on the rail.  It was a seductive pose, and came
very near being the young man's undoing.
"Does it seem impossible to you," she said, "that in these prosaic
times we are treasure hunting?  Must we not wake up and find it a
dream?"
"Most dreams are perishable, but in this case we have the dream tightly
bound.  But what are we going to do with all this money when we find
it?"
"Divide it or start a soldiers' home.  I've never thought of it as
money."
"Heaven knows, I have!"
"Why?"
"Do you really wish to know?" in a voice new to her ear.  "Do you wish
to know why I want money, lots and lots of it?"
She dropped her arms and turned.  The tone agitated and alarmed her
strangely.  "Why, yes.  With plenty of money you could devote all your
time to writing; and I am sure you could write splendid stories."
"That was not my exact thought," he replied, resolutely pulling himself
together.  "But it will serve."  By George! he thought, that was close
enough.
She did not ask him what his exact thought was, but she suspected it.
There was a little shock of pleasure and disappointment; the one rising
from the fact that he had stopped where he did and the other that he
had not gone on.  And she grew angry over this second expression.  She
liked him; she had never met a young man whom she liked more.  But
liking is never loving, and her heart was as free and unburdened as the
wind.  As once remarked, many of the men with whom she had come into
contact had been bred in idleness, and her interest in them had never
gone above friendly tolerance.  Her admiration was for men, young or
old, who cut their way roughly through the world's great obstacles, who
achieved things in pioneering, in history, in science; and she admired
them because they were rather difficult to draw out, being more
familiar with startling journeys, wildernesses, strange peoples, than
with the gilded metaphors of the drawing-room.
And here were three of them to meet daily, to study and to ponder over.
