stood staring at Samuel. " There he is, papa! " 
cried Ethel beside herself with delight. " There's 
my burglar! " 
Dr. Vince came down the hall. He was a 
stockily built gentleman with a rather florid com- 
plexion and bushy beard. " Good morning," he 
said. 
" Good morning, sir," said Samuel. 
" And are you really the young man who was 
Here last night? " 
*' Yes, sir," said Samuel 
The worthy doctor was obviously disconcerted. 
"This is quite extraordinary!" he exclaimed. 
" Won't you come in? " 
They sat down in the library. " I don't want 
you to think, sir," said Samuel quickly, " that I 
come to beg. Your little girl asked me " 
" Don't mention that," said the other. " If 
the story you told Ethel is really true, I 
should be only too glad to do anything that I 
could." 
" Thank you, sir," said Samuel. 
" And so you really broke into my house last 
night!" exclaimed the other. "Well! well! And 
it is the first time you have ever done anything of 
the sort in your life? " 
" The very first," said the boy. 
" But what could have put it into your head? " 
" There was another person with me," said 
Samuel — " you will understand that I would 
rather not talk about him." 
" I see," said the other. " He led you to it? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" And you have never done anything dishonest 
before? " 
" No, sir." 
" You have never even been a thief? " 
" No! " exclaimed Samuel indignantly. 
The other noticed the tone of his voice. " But 
why did you begin now? " he asked. 
" I was persuaded that it was right," said Sam- 
uel. 
" But how could that he? Had you never been 
taught about stealing? " 
" Yes, sir," replied the boy — " hut it's not as 
simple as it seems. I had met Professor Stew- 
art " 
" Professor Stewart ! " echoed the other. 
" Yes, sir — the professor at the college." 
" But what did he have to do with it? " 
" Why, sir, he told me about the survival of 
the fittest, and how I had to starve to death be- 
cause I was one of the failures. And then you 
see, sir, I met Master Albert " 
" Master Albert? " 
" Albert Lockman, sir. And the professor had 
said that he was one of the fit; and I saw that he 
got drunk, sir, and did other things that were very 
wicked, and so it did not seem just right that I 
should starve. I can see now that it was very 
foolish of me ; but I thought that I ought to fight, 
and try to survive if I possibly could. And then 
I met Char — that is, a bad man who offered to 
show me how to be a burglar." 
The other had been listening in amaze- 
ment. " Boy," he said, " are you joking with 
me?" 
" Joking !" echoed Samuel, his eyes opening 
wide. 
And then the doctor caught his breath and pro- 
ceeded to question him. He went back to the be- 
ginning, and made Samuel lay bare the story of 
his whole life. But when he got to the interview 
with Professor Stewart, the other could contain 
himself no longer. "Samuel!" he exclaimed, 
" this is the most terrible thing I have ever heard 
in my hfe." 
" How do you mean, sir? " 
" You have been saved — providentially saved, 
as I firmly believe. But you were hanging on 
the very verge of a life of evil; and all because 
men in oxir colleges are permitted to teach these 
blasphemous and godless doctrines. This is what 
they call science! This is our modern enhghten- 
ment!" 
The doctor had risen and begun to pace the 
floor in his agitation. " I have always insisted 
that the consequence of such teaching would be 
the end of all morality. And here we have the 
thing before our very eyes! A yoxmg man of 
decent life is actually led to the commission of a 
crime, as a consequence of the teachings of Her- 
bert Spencer! " 
Samuel was listening in consternation. " Then 
it isn't true what Herbert Spencer says ! " he ex- 
claimed. 
"True!" cried the other. "Why, Samuel, 
don't you know that it isn't true? Weren't you 
brought up to read the Bible? And do you read 
anything in the Bible about the struggle for ex- 
istence? Were you taught there that your sole 
duty was to fight with other men for your own 
selfish ends? Was it not rather made clear to 
you that you were not to concern yourself with 
your own welfare at all, but to struggle for the 
good of others, and to suffer rather than do evil? 
Why Samuel, what would your father have said, 
if he could have seen you last night — his own dear 
son, that he had brought up in the way of the 
Gospel? " 
" Oh, sir! " cried Samuel, struck to the heart. 
" My boy! " exclaimed the other. " Our busi- 
ness in this world is not that we should survive, 
but that the good should survive. We are to live 
for it and to die for it, if need be. We are to love 
and serve others — we are to be humble and patient 
— to sacrifice ourselves freely. The survival of 
the fittest! Why, Samuel, the very idea is a denial 
of spirituality — what are we that we should call 
ourselves fit? To think that is to be exposed to 
all the base passions of the human heart — to greed 
and jealousy and hate! Such doctrines are the 
cause of all the wickedness, of all the materialism 
of our time — of crime and murder and war! My 
boy, do you read that Jesus went about, worry- 
ing about His own survival, and robbing others 
because they were less fit than He? Only think 
how it would have heen with you had you been 
called to face Him last night? " 
The shame of this was more than Samuel 
could bear. " Oh, stop, stop, sir! " he cried, and 
covered his face with his hands. " I see it all ! 
I have been very wicked! " 
" Yes ! " exclaimed the other. " You have been 
wicked." 
The tears were welling into Samuel's eyes. " I 
can't see how I did it, sir," he whispered. " I 
have been blind — I have been lost. I am a 
strayed sheep ! " And then suddenly his emotion 
overcame him, and he burst into a paroxysm of 
weeping. " I can't believe it of myself! " he ex- 
claimed again and again. " I have been out of 
my senses! " 
The doctor watched him for a few moments. 
" Perhaps it was not altogether your fault," he 
said more gently. " You have been led astray — " 
" No, no ! " cried the boy. " I am bad. I see 
it — it must be! I could never have been per- 
suaded, if I had not been bad! It began at the 
very beginning. I yielded to the first tempta- 
tion when I stole a ride upon the train. And 
everything else came from that — it has been one 
long chain! " 
" Let us be glad that it is no longer," said Dr. 
Vince — " and that you have come to the end of 
it." 
" Ah, but have I? " cried the boy wildly. 
" Why not? Surely you will no longer be led. 
by such false teaching! " 
"No, sir. But see what I have donel Why 
I am liable to be sent to jail — for I don't know 
how long." 
" You mean for last night? " asked the doctor. 
" But no one will ever know about that. You 
may start again and live a true hfe." 
" Ah," cried Samuel, " but the memory of it 
will haunt me — I can never forgive myself! " 
" We are very fortunate," said the other grave- 
ly, "if we have only a few things in our hves 
that we cannot forget, and that we cannot for- 
give ourselves." 
The worthy doctor had been anticipating a 
long struggle to bring the young criminal to see 
the error of his ways ; but instead, he found that 
he had to use his skill in casuistry to convince the 
boy that he was not hopelessly sulhed. And when 
at last Samuel had been persuaded that he might 
take up his hfe again, there was nothing that 
would satisfy him save to go back where he had 
been before, and take up that struggle with 
starvation. 
" I must prove that I can conquer," he said — 
" I yielded to the temptation once, and now I 
must face it." 
" But, Samuel," protested the doctor, " it is 
no man's duty to starve. You must let me help 
you, and find some useful work for you, and some 
people who will be your friends." 
" Don't think I am ungrateful," cried the boy 
— " but why should I be favored? There are so 
many others starving, right here in this town. 
And if I am going to love them and serve them, 
why should I have more than they have? 
Wouldn't that be selfish of me? Why, sir, I'd 
be making profit out of my repentance! " 
" I don't quite see that," said the other 
" Why, sir! Isn't it just because I've been so 
sorry that you are willing to help me? There 
are so many others who have not been helped — 
some I know, sir, that need it far more than I do, 
and have deserved it more, too! " 
" It seems to me, my boy, that is being too hard 
upon yourself — and on me. I cannot relieve all 
the distress in the world. I relieve what I find 
out about. And so I must help you. And don't 
you see that I wish to keep you near me, so that 
I can watch after yom* welfare? And perhaps — 
who knows — you can help me. The harvest is 
plenty, you have heard, and the laborers are few. 
There are many, ways in which you could be of 
service in my church." 
"Ah, sir!" cried Samuel, overwhelmed witK 
gratitude — " if you put it that way " 
" I put it that way most certainly," said Dr. 
Vince. " You have seen a new light — you wish 
to live a new life. Stay here and live it in Lock- 
manville — there is no place in the world where 
it could be more needed." 
All this while the httle girl had been sitting in 
silence drinking in the conversation. Now sud- 
denly she rose and came to Samuel, putting her 
hand in his. " Please stay," she said. 
And Samuel answered, " Very well — I'll stay." 
So then they fell to discussing his future, and 
what Dr. Vince was going to do for him. The 
good doctor was inwardly more perplexed about 
it than he cared to let Samuel know. 
" I'll ask Mr. Wygant," he said — " perhaps he 
can find you a place in one of his factories." 
"Mr. Wygant?" echoed Samuel. "You 
mean Miss Gladys's father? " 
" Yes," said the doctor. " Do you know Miss 
Gladys? " 
" I have met her two or three times," said the 
boy. 
" They are parishioners of mine," remarked the 
other. 
And Samuel gave a start. "Why!" he ex- 
claimed. " Then you — you must be the rector of 
St. Matthew's." 
" Yes," was the reply. " Didn't you know 
that? " 
The boy was a little awed. He had seen the 
great brownstone temple upon the hill — a struc- 
ture far more splendid than anything he had ever 
dreamed of. 
" Have you never attended? " asked the doctor. 
" I went to the mission once," said Samuel — 
referring to the little chapel in the poor quarters 
of the town. "A friend of mine goes there — 
Sophie Stedman. She works in Mr. Wygant's 
cotton mill." 
" I should be glad to have you come to the 
church," said the other. 
" I'd like to very much," replied the boy. " I 
didn't know exactly if I ought to, you know." 
" I am sorry you got that impression," said 
Dr. Vince. " The church holds out its arms to 
everyone." 
" Well," began Samuel apologetically, " I 
knew that all the rich people went to St. Mat- 
thew's " 
" The church does not belong to the rich peo- 
ple," put in the doctor very gravely; " the church 
belongs to the Lord." 
And so Samuel, overflowing with gratitude 
and happiness, joined St. Matthew's forthwith; 
and all the while in the deeps of his soul a voice 
was whispering to him that it was Miss Gladys' 
church also ! And he would see his divinity again! 
CHAPTER XVI 
SAMUEL' went back in great excitement to 
the Stedman's, to tell them of his good for- 
tune. And the family sat about in a circle and 
listened to the recital in open-eyed amazement. 
It was a wonderful thing to have an adventurer 
like Samuel in one's house! 
But the boy noticed that Sophie did not seem 
as much excited as he had anticipated. She sat 
with her head resting in her hands. And when 
the others had left the room — " Oh, Samuel," she 
said. "I feel so badly to-day! I don't see how I'm 
going to go on." 
" Listen, Sophie," he said quickly. " That's 
one of the first things I thought about — I can 
give you a chance now." 
" How do you mean? " 
" I can get Dr. Vince to help you find some 
better work." 
" Did he say he would? " asked the child. 
" No," was the reply — " but he is so good to 
everyone. And all the rich people go to his 
chtu"ch, you know. He said he wanted me to help 
him; so I shall find out things like that for him 
to do." 
And Samuel went on, pouring out his praises 
of the kind and gentle clergyman, and striving 
to interest Sophie by his pictures of the new world 
that was to open before her. " I'm going to see 
him again to-morrow," he said. " Then you'll 
see." 
" Samuel," announced the doctor when he 
called the next morning, " I have found a chance 
for you." And Samuel's heart gave a great leap 
of joy. 
It appeared that the sexton of St. Matthew's 
was growing old. They did not wish to change, 
but there must be some one to help him. The pay 
would not be high; but he would have a chance 
to work in the church, and to be near his bene- 
factor. The tears of gratitude started into his 
eyes as he heard this wonderful piece of news. 
"I'll see more of Miss Gladys !" the voice 
within him was whispering eagerly. 
" Doctor," he said after a pause, " I've some 
good news for you also." 
" What is it? " asked the other. 
" It's a chance for you to help some one." 
"Oh! "said the doctor. 
"'It's little Sophie Stedman," said Samuel; 
and he went on to tell how he had met the widow, 
and about her long struggle with starvation, 
and then of Sophie's experiences in the cotton 
mill. 
" But what do you want me to do? " asked the 
other, with a troubled look. 
" Why," said Samuel, " we must save her. We 
must find her some work that will not kill her." 
" But, Samuel ! " protested the other. " There 
are so many in her position — and how can I help 
it?" 
" But, doctor! She can't stand it! " 
" I know, my boy. It is a terrible thing to 
think of. Still, I can't undertake to find work 
for everyone." 
" But she will die! " cried the boy. " Truly, 
it is killing her! And, doctor, she has never had 
a chance in all her life! Only think — how would 
you feel if Ethel had to work in a cotton null? " 
There was a pause. " I honestly can't see — " 
began the bewildered clergyman. 
" It will be quite easy for you to help her," 
put in the boy; " because, you see, Mr. Wygant 
belongs to your chiu-ch! " 
" But what has that to do with it? " 
" Why — it's Mr. Wygant's mill that she works 
in." 
Yes," said the doctor. " But — I- 
" Surely," exclaimed Samuel, " you don't 
mean that he wouldn't want to know about it! " 
" Ahem! " said the other; and again there was 
a pause. 
It was broken by Ethel, who had come in and 
was listening to the conversation. " Papa! " she 
exclaimed, " wouldn't Miss Gladys be the one to 
ask? " 
Samuel gave a start. " The very thing ! " he 
said. 
And Dr. Vince, after pondering for a moment, 
admitted that it might be a good idea. 
" You will come to church with me to-mor- 
row," said Ethel. " And if she is there we'll ask 
her." 
And so Samuel was on hand, trembling with 
excitement, and painfuEy conscious of his green 
and purple necktie. He sat in the Vince's pew, 
at Ethel's invitation; and directly across the aisle 
was Miss Wygant, miraculously resplendent in a 
spriogtime costume, yet with a touch of primness, 
becoming to the Sabbath. She did not see her 
adorer until after the service, when they met face 
to face. 
" Why, Samuel! " she exclaimed. " You are 
here? " 
" Yes, Miss Gladys," he said. " I'm to work 
in the church now." 
" You don't tell me! " she responded. 
" I'm to help the sexton," he added. 
" And he belongs to the church, too," put in 
little Ethel. " And oh. Miss Gladys, won't you 
please let him tell you about Sophie! " 
" About Sophie? " said the other. 
" She's a little girl who works in your papa's 
mill, Miss Gladys. And her family's very poor, 
and she is sick, and Samuel says she may die." 
"Why, that's too bad!" exclaimed Miss 
Gladys. " Tell me about her, Samuel." 
And Samuel told the story. At the end a sud- 
den inspiration came to him, and he mentioned 
how Sophie had received her Christmas present 
from Miss Gladys, and how she had kept her pic- 
tures in her room. 
And, of course. Miss Wygant was touched. 
" I will see what I can do for her," she said. 
" What would you suggest? " 
" I thought," said he boldly, " that maybe 
there might be some place for her at your home. 
That would make her so happy, you know." 
" I will see," said the other. " Will you bring 
her to see me to-morrow, Samuel? " 
" I will," said he; and then he chanced to look 
into her face, and he caught again that piercing 
gaze which made the blood leap into his cheeks, 
and the strange and terrible emotions to stir in 
him. He turned his eyes away again, and his 
knees were trembling as he passed on down the 
aisle. 
He stood and watched Miss Gladys enter her 
motor. Then he bade good-by to Ethel and her 
mother, and hurried back into the vestry room to 
tell Dr. Vince of his good fortune. 
The good doctor had just slipped out of his 
vestments, and was putting on his cuffs. " I am 
so glad to hear it ! " he said. " It was the very 
thing to do !" 
" Yes," said Samuel. " And, doctor, I've 
thought of something else." 
" What is that, Samuel? " 
" I'll have to have a minute or two to tell you 
about it." 
" I'm just going to dinner now " — began the 
doctor. 
" I'll walk with you, if I may," said Samuel. 
" It's really very important." 
" All right," responded the doctor in some 
trepidation. 
" I thought of this in the middle of the night," 
explained the boy, when they had started down 
the street. " It kept me awake for hours. Dr. 
Vince, I think we ought to convert Master Al- 
bert Lockman! " 
" Convert him? " echoed the other perplexed. 
" Yes, sir," said the boy. " He is leading a 
wild life, and he's in a very bad way." 
" Yes, Samuel," said the clergyman. " It is 
terrible, I know " 
" We must labor with him! " exclaimed Sam- 
uel. " He must not be allowed to go on like 
that!" 
" Unfortunately," said Dr. Vince hastily, " it 
wouldn't do for me to try it. You see, the Lock- 
mans have always been Presbyterians, and so 
Bertie is imder Dr. Handy's care." 
" But is Dr. Handy doing anything about it? " 
persisted the other. 
" I really don't know, Samuel." 
" Because if he isn't, we ought to. Dr. Vincel 
Something must be done." 
" My boy," said the doctor, " perhaps it 
wouldn't be easy for you to understand it. But 
there is a feeling — would it be quite good taste 
for me to try to take away a very rich parish- 
ioner from another church? " 
" But what have his riches to do with it? " 
asked the boy. 
" Unfortunately, Samuel, it costs money to 
build chiu-ches; and most clergymen are depend- 
ent upon their salaries, you know." 
The good doctor was trying to make a jest of 
it; but Samuel was in deadly earnest. " I hope," 
he said, " that you are not dependent upon the 
money of anyone like Master Albert." 
" Um — no," said the doctor quickly. 
" Understand me, please," went on the other. 
" It's not simply that Master Albert is wrecking 
his own life. I suppose that's his right, if he 
wants to. But it's what he can do to other people ! 
It's his money, Dr. Vince! Just think of it, he 
has seven hundred thousand dollars a year I And 
he never earned a cent of it; and he doesn't know 
what to do with it ! Doctor, you know that isn't 
right I" 
" No," said the clergyman, " it's very wrong 
indeed. But what can you do about it? " 
" I don't know, doctor. I haven't had time to 
think about it — I've only just begun to reahze 
it. But I thought if somebody hke yourself — 
some one he respects — could point it out to him, 
he might use his money to some good purpose. 
If he won't, why then he ought to give it up." 
The other smiled. " I'm afraid, Samuel, he'd 
hardly do that!" 
" But, doctor, things can't go on as they are! 
Right here in this town are people dying of 
starvation. And he has seven hundred thousand 
dollars a year! Can that continue? " 
" No, I trust not, my boy. It will be better 
some day. But it must be left to evolution " 
" Evolution! " echoed Samuel perplexed. " Do 
you believe in evolution? " 
" Why," said the other embarrassed — " what 
I mean is, that there are vast social forces at work 
— great changes taking place. But they move 
very slowly " 
" But why do they move so slowly? " objected 
the boy. " Isn't it just because so many people 
don't care? " 
" Why, Samuel " 
" If everyone would take an interest in them 
— then they would happen quickly ! " 
The two walked on for a minute in silence. 
Finally, the clergyman remarked, " Samuel, you 
take a great interest in social questions." 
" Yes, sir," said the hoy. " You see, I have 
been down at the bottom, and I know how it feels. 
Nobody else can possibly imderstand — not even 
you, sir, with all your kind heart. You don't 
know what it means, sir — you don't know what 
it means! " 
" Perhaps not, my boy," said the other. " But 
my conscience is far from easy, I assure you. 
The only thing is, we must not be too impatient 
— we must learn to wait " 
" But, doctor! " exclaimed Samuel. " Will the 
people wait to starve? " 
That question was a poser; and perhaps it was 
just as well that Dr. Vince was nearing the steps 
of his home. " I must go in now, Samuel," he 
said. " But we will talk about these questions 
another time." 
" Yes, sir," said Samuel, " we will." 
And the other glanced at him quickly. But 
the boy's face wore its old look of guileless eager- 
ness. 
CHAPTER XVII 
SAMUEL walked away, still pondering at 
the problem. Something must be done about 
Master Albert, that was certain. Before he went 
in to his dinner he had thought of yet another 
plan. He would appeal to Miss Gladys about it! 
He would get her to labor with the prodigal! 
At eight o'clock the next morning, he and So- 
phie called at Miss Wygant's home. They went 
to the servants' entrance, and the maid who 
opened the door sent them away, saying that Miss 
Gladys never arose until ten o'clock and would 
not see anyone until eleven. 
So they went home again and came at eleven; 
and they were taken to a sitting room upon the 
second floor, and there Miss Gladys met them, 
clad in a morning gown of crimson silk. 
"And so this is Sophie!" she exclaimed. 
"Why you poor, poor child! " And she gazed 
a* the little mill girl with her stimted figure and 
pinched cheeks, and her patched and threadbare 
dress ; and Sophie, in her turn, gazed at the won- 
derful princess, tall and stately, glowing with 
health and voluptuous beauty. 
" And you work in our cotton mill! " she cried. 
" How perfectly terrible ! And do you mean to 
tell me that this child is thirteen years old, Sam- 
uel? " 
" Yes, Miss Gladys," said he. 
She turned quickly and pressed a button on 
the wall, " Send Mrs. Harris here," she said to 
the man who answered. 
" Mrs. Harris is our housekeeper," she added 
to Samuel. " I will consult her about it." 
The " consulting " was very brief. " Mrs. 
Harris, this is Sophie Stedman, a little girl I want 
to help. I don't know what she can do, but you 
will find out. I want her to have soime sort of a 
place in the house — and it mustn't be hard work." 
" But, Miss Gladys," said the other in perplex- 
ity, " I don't know of anything at all! " 
" You can find something," was the yoimg 
lady's reply. " I want her to have a chance to 
learn. Takfe her downstairs and have a talk with 
her about it." 
" Yes, Miss Gladys," said Mrs. Harris; and 
so Samuel was left alone with his goddessi 
He sat with his eyes upon the floor. He was 
just about to open the great subject he had in 
his mind, when suddenly Miss Gladys herself 
brought it up. " Samuel," she asked, " why did 
you leave my cousin's? " 
Samuel hesitated. " I — I don't like to say. 
Miss Gladys." 
" Please tell me," she insisted. 
" I left it," he replied in a low voice, " because 
I found that he got drunk." 
" Ohl " said the girl, " when was this? " 
" It was last Wednesday night. Miss Gla- 
dys." 
" Tell me all about it, Samuel." 
" I — I don't like to," he stammered. " It's not' 
a story to tell to a lady." 
" I already know something about it from my 
maid," said she. "Jack Holliday was there, 
wasn't he? " 
" Yes, ma'am." 
" And some women? " 
" Yes, ma'am." 
" How many, Samuel? " 
" Four, Miss Gladys." 
" Tell me about them, Samuel. What sort of 
women were they? " 
It was very hard for Samuel to answer these 
questions. He blushed as he talked; but Miss 
Gladys appeared not at all disconcerted — in fact 
she was greedy for the details. 
" You say her name was Belle. I wonder if 
it was that girl from ' The Maids of Mandelay.' 
Was she a dancer, Samuel? " 
" I don't know. Miss Gladys." 
" Anji what became of her? " 
" I took her to a hotel, Miss Gladys,'* 
" And what then? " 
Samuel stopped short. " I really couldn't tell 
you," he said. 
" But why not? " 
" Because I promised." 
" Whom did you promise? " 
" I promised the sergeant, Miss Gladys." 
" The sergeant! A policeman, you mean? " 
" Yes, ma'am." 
" But what — what did the police have to do 
with it? " 
" They took me to jail, Miss Gladys. They 
thought that I did it." 
" Did what? " 
And again the hoy shut his lips. 
" Listen, Samuel," pleaded the other. " You 
know that I am Bertie's cousin. And he's all 
alone. And I'm responsible for him " 
" Oh, Miss Gladys! " cried the boy. " If you 
only would try to help him! I meant to ask 
you—" 
" But how can I help him if you keep me in 
ignorance? " 
And so Samuel blurted out the whole story. 
And Miss Gladys sat dumb with horror. " She 
killed herself! She killed herself!" she gasped 
again and again. 
" Yes, Miss Gladys," said Samuel. " And it 
was awful! You can't imagine it! " 
" I read of the suicide in the paper. But I 
never dreamed of Bertie!" 
There was a moment's pause. " It must be 
a dreadful thing for him to have on his con- 
science " — began the boy. 
"He must have been frightened to death!" 
said she. And then she added quickly, " Samuel, 
you haven't told anyone about this! " 
" Not a soul, Miss Gladys." 
" You are siu-e? " 
" I'm sure, ma'am." 
" You didn't tell Dr. Vince? " 
" I just told him that I had left because Master 
Albert got drunk, Miss Gladys. That was the 
truth." 
" Yes," said she; and then, " You always tell 
the truth, don't you, Samuel? " 
" I try to," he replied. 
" You are very good, aren't you? " she added. 
Samuel blushed. " No," he said gravely. 
" I'm not good at all." 
The other looked at him for a moment, and 
then a smile crossed her face. " I've heard 
a saying," she remarked — " ' Be good and 
you'll be happy, but you'll miss a lot of 
fun.' " 
Samuel pondered. " I think that is a very ter- 
rible saying," he declared earnestly. 
Miss Gladys laughed. And she went on to 
cross-question him as to the suicide — satisfying 
her curiosity as to the last hideous detail. 
Then she looked at Samuel and asked suddenly, 
" Why do you wear that hideous thing? " 
Samuel started. " What thing? " he asked. 
"That tie!" 
" Why I " he said—" I got that specially " 
He stopped, embarrassed; and the other's 
peal of laughter rang through the room. " Take 
it off!" she said. 
She got up and came to him, saying, " I 
coxildn't stand it." 
With trembling fingers he removed the tie. 
And she took off the beautiful red ribbon that 
was tied about her waist, and cut it to the right 
length. " Put that on," she said, " and I'll show 
you how to tie it." 
And Samuel stood there, rapt in a sudden 
nightmare ecstasy. She was close to him, her 
qiiick fingers were playing about his throat. Her 
breath was upon his face, and the intoxicating 
perfume of her filled his nostrils. The blood 
mounted into his face, and the veins stood out 
upon his forehead, and strange and monstrous 
things stirred in the depths of him. 
"There," she said, "that's better"— and 
stepped back to admire the result. She smiled 
upon him radiantly. " You have no taste, Sam- 
uel," she said. " I shall have to educate you." 
"Yes, Miss Gladys," he responded in a low 
voice. 
" And listen," she went on, " you will come to 
see Sophie now and then, won't you? " 
" Yes, yes," he said quickly. 
" And come some time when I am here." 
He caught his breath and gripped his hands 
and answered yet again, " Yes! " 
" Don't be afraid of me," added the girl gently. 
" You don't appreciate yourself half enough, 
Samuel." 
Then there came voices in the hall, and Miss 
Gladys turned, and the housekeeper and Sophie 
came in. " Well? " she asked. 
" She doesn't know anything at all," said Mrs. 
Harris. " But if you want her taught — I sup- 
pose she could run errands and do sewing " 
" Very good," said the other. " And pay her 
well. Will you like that, Sophie? " 
" Yes, Miss," whispered the child in a faint 
voice. She was gazing in awe and rapture at this 
peerless being, and she could hardly find utter- 
ance for two words. 
" All right, then," said Miss Gladys, " that will 
do very well. You come to-morrow, Sophie. And 
good-by, Samuel, I must go for my ride now." 
" Good-by, Miss Gladys," said Samuel. " And 
please don't forget what you were going to say 
to Master Albert!" 
CHAPTER XVIII 
SAMUEL went home walking upon air. He 
had found a place for himself and a place 
for Sophie. And he had got the reforming of 
Bertie Lockman under way! Truly, the church 
was a great institution — the solution of all the 
puzzles and problems of life. And fortunate was 
Samuel to be so close to the inner life of things !
Then suddenly, on a street corner, he stopped 
short. A sign had caught his eye — " John Calla- 
han, Wines and Liquors — Bernheimer Beer." 
" Do you know what that place is? " he said to 
Sophie. " That's where my friend Finnegan 
works." 
" Who's Finnegan? " asked the child. 
" He's the barkeeper who gave me somethiog 
to eat when I first came to town. He's a good 
man, even if he is a barkeeper." 
Samuel had often found himself thinking of 
Finnegan; for it had been altogether against his 
idea of things that a man so obviously well mean- 
ing should be selling liquor. And now suddenly 
a brilliant idea flashed across his mind. Why 
should he continue selling liquor? And instantly 
Samuel saw a new duty before him. He must 
help Finnegan. 
And forgetting that it was time for his dinner, 
he bade good-by to Sophie and went into the 
saloon. 
"Well, young feller!" exclaimed the Irish- 
man, his face lighting up with pleasure; and then, 
seeing the boy's new collar and tie, " Gee, you're 
moving up in the world! " 
" I've got a job," said Samuel proudly. " I'm 
the assistant sexton at St. Matthew's Church." 
" You don't say ! Gone up with the sky pilots, 
hey!" 
Samuel did not notice this irreverent remark. 
He looked arotmd the place and saw that thej 
were alone. Then he said, very earnestly, " Mr. 
Finnegan, may I have a few minutes' talk with 
you? " 
" Sure," said Finnegan perplexed. " What is 
it?" 
" It's something I've been thinking about very 
often," said Samuel. ' You were so kind to me, 
and I saw that you were a good-hearted man. 
And so it has always seemed to me too bad that 
you should be selling drink." 
The other stared at him. "Gee!" he said, 
" are you going to take me up in your airship? " 
" Mr. Fiimegan," said the boy, " I wish you 
wouldn't make fun of me. For I'm talking to 
you out of the bottom of my heart," 
And Samuel gazed with so much yearning in 
his eyes that the man was touched, in spite of the 
absurdity of it. " Go on," he said. " I'll listen." 
" It's just this," said Samuel. " It's wrong to 
sell liquor! Think what drink does to men? I 
saw a man drunk the other night and it led to 
what was almost murder. Drink makes men 
cruel and selfish. It takes away their self-con- 
trol. It makes them unfit for their work. It 
leads to vice and wickedness. It enslaves them 
and degrades them. Don't you know that is true, 
Mr. Finnegan? " 
" Yes," admitted Finnegan, " I reckon it is. I 
never touch the stuff myself." 
" And still you sell it to others? " 
" Well, my boy, I don't do it because I hate 
them." 
" But then, why do you do it? " 
" I do it," said Finnegan, " because I have 
to live. It's my trade — it's all I know." 
"It seems such a terrible trade!" exclaimed 
the boy. 
" Maybe," said the other. " But take notice, 
it ain't a princely one. I'm on the job all day 
and a good part of the night, and standing up 
all the time. And I don't get no holidays either 
— and I only get twelve a week. And I've a 
wife and a new baby. So what's a man to do? " 
Now, strange as it may seem, this imfolded a 
new view to Samuel. He had always supposed 
that bartenders and saloonkeepers were such 
from innate depravity. Could it really be that 
they were driven to the trade? 
The bare idea was enough to set his zeal in 
a blaze. " Listen," he said. " Suppose I were 
to find you some kind of honest work, so that you 
could earn a living. Would you promise to re- 
form? " 
" Do you mean would I quit Callahan's? Why, 
sure I would." 
" Ah! " exclaimed the boy in delight. 
" But it'd have to be a steady job," put in the 
other. " I can take no chances with the baby." 
" That's air right," said Samuel. " I'll get 
you what you want." 
"Gee, young feller!" exclaimed Finnegan. 
" Do you carry 'em round in your pockets? " 
" No," said Samuel, " but Dr. Vince asked me 
to help him; and I'm going to tell him about 
you." 
And so, forthwith, he made his way to the doc- 
tor's house, and was ushered into the presence of 
the unhappy clergyman. He stated his case ; and 
the other threw up his hands in despair. 
" Really," he exclaimed, " this is too much, 
Samuel! I can't find employment for everyone 
in Lockmanville." 
"But, doctor!" protested Samuel, "I don't 
think you understand. This man wants to lead 
a decent life, and he can't because there's no way 
for him to earn a living." 
" I understand all that, Samuel." 
" But, doctor, what's the use of trying to re- 
form men if they're chained in that way? " 
There was a pause. 
" I'm afraid it's hopeless to explain to you," 
said the clergyman. " But you'll have to make 
up your mind to it, Samuel — there are a great 
many men in the world who want jobs, and it 
seems to be unfortimately true that there are 
fewer jobs than men." 
" Yes," said the other, " but that's what Pro- 
fessor Stewart taught me. And you said it was 
wicked of him." 
*' ,Um — " said the doctor, taken aback. 
"Don't you see?" went on Samuel eagerly. 
" It puts you right back with Herbert Spencer! 
If there are more men than there are jobs, then 
the men have to fight for them. And so you have 
the struggle for existence, and the survival of the, 
greedy and the selfish. If Finnegan wouldn't 
be a barkeeper, then he and his family would 
starve, and somebody else would survive who was 
willing to be that bad." 
The boy waited. " Don't you see that. Dr. 
Vince? " he persisted. 
" Yes, I see that," said the doctor. 
" And you told me that the only way to es- 
cape from that was to live for others — to serve 
them and help them. And isn't that what I'm 
trying to do? " 
" Yes, my boy, that is so. But what can we 
do?" 
" Why, doctor, aren't you the head of the 
church? And the people come to you to be 
taught. You must point out these things to 
them, so that there can be a change." 
" But what change, Samuel? " 
" I don't know, sir. I'm groping aroimd and 
trying to find out. But I'm sure of one thing 
— that some people have got too much money. 
iWhy, Dr. Vince, there are people right in your 
church who have more than they could spend in 
hundreds of years." 
" Perhaps so," said the other. " But what 
harm does that do? " 
" Why — that's the reason that so many others 
have nothing! Only realize it — right at this very 
moment there are people starving to death — and 
here in Lockmanville! They want to work, and 
there is no work for them! I could take you 
to see them, sir — girls who want a job in Mr. 
Wygant's cotton mill, and he won't give it to 
them!" 
" But, my boy — that isn't Mr. Wygant's 
fault! It's because there is too much cloth al- 
ready." 
" I've been thinking about that," said Samuel 
earnestly. " And it doesn't sound right to me. 
There are too many people who need good 
clothes. Look at poor Sophie, for instance!" 
" Yes," said the other, " of course. But they 
haven't money to buy the cloth " 
