sun.
She heard steps behind her, and turned, expecting to see the gardener,
accompanied by the engineer from Dorchester. But only one figure was
in sight, that of a youngish, slightly built man, who, for reasons she
could not on the spot have specified, did not remotely resemble her
preconceived notion of an authority on hot-house boilers. The
new-comer, on seeing her, lifted his hat, and paused with the air of a
gentleman--perhaps a traveler--desirous of having it immediately known
that his intrusion is involuntary. The local fame of Lyng occasionally
attracted the more intelligent sight-seer, and Mary half-expected to see
the stranger dissemble a camera, or justify his presence by producing
it. But he made no gesture of any sort, and after a moment she asked,
in a tone responding to the courteous deprecation of his attitude: “Is
there any one you wish to see?”
“I came to see Mr. Boyne,” he replied. His intonation, rather than his
accent, was faintly American, and Mary, at the familiar note, looked
at him more closely. The brim of his soft felt hat cast a shade on his
face, which, thus obscured, wore to her short-sighted gaze a look of
seriousness, as of a person arriving “on business,” and civilly but
firmly aware of his rights.
Past experience had made Mary equally sensible to such claims; but she
was jealous of her husband’s morning hours, and doubtful of his having
given any one the right to intrude on them.
“Have you an appointment with Mr. Boyne?” she asked.
He hesitated, as if unprepared for the question.
“Not exactly an appointment,” he replied.
“Then I’m afraid, this being his working-time, that he can’t receive you
now. Will you give me a message, or come back later?”
The visitor, again lifting his hat, briefly replied that he would come
back later, and walked away, as if to regain the front of the house. As
his figure receded down the walk between the yew hedges, Mary saw him
pause and look up an instant at the peaceful house-front bathed in faint
winter sunshine; and it struck her, with a tardy touch of compunction,
that it would have been more humane to ask if he had come from a
distance, and to offer, in that case, to inquire if her husband could
receive him. But as the thought occurred to her he passed out of
sight behind a pyramidal yew, and at the same moment her attention was
distracted by the approach of the gardener, attended by the bearded
pepper-and-salt figure of the boiler-maker from Dorchester.
The encounter with this authority led to such far-reaching issues that
they resulted in his finding it expedient to ignore his train, and
beguiled Mary into spending the remainder of the morning in absorbed
confabulation among the greenhouses. She was startled to find, when the
colloquy ended, that it was nearly luncheon-time, and she half expected,
as she hurried back to the house, to see her husband coming out to meet
her. But she found no one in the court but an under-gardener raking
the gravel, and the hall, when she entered it, was so silent that she
guessed Boyne to be still at work behind the closed door of the library.
Not wishing to disturb him, she turned into the drawing-room, and there,
at her writing-table, lost herself in renewed calculations of the outlay
to which the morning’s conference had committed her. The knowledge that
she could permit herself such follies had not yet lost its novelty; and
somehow, in contrast to the vague apprehensions of the previous days, it
now seemed an element of her recovered security, of the sense that, as
Ned had said, things in general had never been “righter.”
She was still luxuriating in a lavish play of figures when the
parlor-maid, from the threshold, roused her with a dubiously worded
inquiry as to the expediency of serving luncheon. It was one of their
jokes that Trimmle announced luncheon as if she were divulging a
state secret, and Mary, intent upon her papers, merely murmured an
absent-minded assent.
She felt Trimmle wavering expressively on the threshold as if in rebuke
of such offhand acquiescence; then her retreating steps sounded down the
passage, and Mary, pushing away her papers, crossed the hall, and went
to the library door. It was still closed, and she wavered in her turn,
disliking to disturb her husband, yet anxious that he should not exceed
his normal measure of work. As she stood there, balancing her impulses,
the esoteric Trimmle returned with the announcement of luncheon, and
Mary, thus impelled, opened the door and went into the library.
Boyne was not at his desk, and she peered about her, expecting to
discover him at the book-shelves, somewhere down the length of the room;
but her call brought no response, and gradually it became clear to her
that he was not in the library.
She turned back to the parlor-maid.
“Mr. Boyne must be up-stairs. Please tell him that luncheon is ready.”
The parlor-maid appeared to hesitate between the obvious duty of obeying
orders and an equally obvious conviction of the foolishness of
the injunction laid upon her. The struggle resulted in her saying
doubtfully, “If you please, Madam, Mr. Boyne’s not up-stairs.”
“Not in his room? Are you sure?”
“I’m sure, Madam.”
Mary consulted the clock. “Where is he, then?”
“He’s gone out,” Trimmle announced, with the superior air of one who has
respectfully waited for the question that a well-ordered mind would have
first propounded.
Mary’s previous conjecture had been right, then. Boyne must have gone to
the gardens to meet her, and since she had missed him, it was clear that
he had taken the shorter way by the south door, instead of going round
to the court. She crossed the hall to the glass portal opening directly
on the yew garden, but the parlor-maid, after another moment of inner
conflict, decided to bring out recklessly, “Please, Madam, Mr. Boyne
didn’t go that way.”
Mary turned back. “Where did he go? And when?”
“He went out of the front door, up the drive, Madam.” It was a matter of
principle with Trimmle never to answer more than one question at a time.
“Up the drive? At this hour?” Mary went to the door herself, and
glanced across the court through the long tunnel of bare limes. But
its perspective was as empty as when she had scanned it on entering the
house.
“Did Mr. Boyne leave no message?” she asked.
Trimmle seemed to surrender herself to a last struggle with the forces
of chaos.
“No, Madam. He just went out with the gentleman.”
“The gentleman? What gentleman?” Mary wheeled about, as if to front this
new factor.
“The gentleman who called, Madam,” said Trimmle, resignedly.
“When did a gentleman call? Do explain yourself, Trimmle!”
Only the fact that Mary was very hungry, and that she wanted to consult
her husband about the greenhouses, would have caused her to lay so
unusual an injunction on her attendant; and even now she was detached
enough to note in Trimmle’s eye the dawning defiance of the respectful
subordinate who has been pressed too hard.
“I couldn’t exactly say the hour, Madam, because I didn’t let the
gentleman in,” she replied, with the air of magnanimously ignoring the
irregularity of her mistress’s course.
“You didn’t let him in?”
“No, Madam. When the bell rang I was dressing, and Agnes--”
“Go and ask Agnes, then,” Mary interjected. Trimmle still wore her
look of patient magnanimity. “Agnes would not know, Madam, for she had
unfortunately burnt her hand in trying the wick of the new lamp from
town--” Trimmle, as Mary was aware, had always been opposed to the new
lamp--“and so Mrs. Dockett sent the kitchen-maid instead.”
Mary looked again at the clock. “It’s after two! Go and ask the
kitchen-maid if Mr. Boyne left any word.”
She went into luncheon without waiting, and Trimmle presently brought
her there the kitchen-maid’s statement that the gentleman had called
about one o’clock, that Mr. Boyne had gone out with him without leaving
any message. The kitchen-maid did not even know the caller’s name, for
he had written it on a slip of paper, which he had folded and handed to
her, with the injunction to deliver it at once to Mr. Boyne.
Mary finished her luncheon, still wondering, and when it was over,
and Trimmle had brought the coffee to the drawing-room, her wonder had
deepened to a first faint tinge of disquietude. It was unlike Boyne
to absent himself without explanation at so unwonted an hour, and the
difficulty of identifying the visitor whose summons he had apparently
obeyed made his disappearance the more unaccountable. Mary Boyne’s
experience as the wife of a busy engineer, subject to sudden calls and
compelled to keep irregular hours, had trained her to the philosophic
acceptance of surprises; but since Boyne’s withdrawal from business he
had adopted a Benedictine regularity of life. As if to make up for the
dispersed and agitated years, with their “stand-up” lunches and dinners
rattled down to the joltings of the dining-car, he cultivated the last
refinements of punctuality and monotony, discouraging his wife’s fancy
for the unexpected; and declaring that to a delicate taste there were
infinite gradations of pleasure in the fixed recurrences of habit.
Still, since no life can completely defend itself from the unforeseen,
it was evident that all Boyne’s precautions would sooner or later prove
unavailable, and Mary concluded that he had cut short a tiresome visit
by walking with his caller to the station, or at least accompanying him
for part of the way.
This conclusion relieved her from farther preoccupation, and she went
out herself to take up her conference with the gardener. Thence she
walked to the village post-office, a mile or so away; and when she
turned toward home, the early twilight was setting in.
She had taken a foot-path across the downs, and as Boyne, meanwhile,
had probably returned from the station by the highroad, there was little
likelihood of their meeting on the way. She felt sure, however, of his
having reached the house before her; so sure that, when she entered it
herself, without even pausing to inquire of Trimmle, she made directly
for the library. But the library was still empty, and with an unwonted
precision of visual memory she immediately observed that the papers on
her husband’s desk lay precisely as they had lain when she had gone in
to call him to luncheon.
Then of a sudden she was seized by a vague dread of the unknown. She had
closed the door behind her on entering, and as she stood alone in the
long, silent, shadowy room, her dread seemed to take shape and sound,
to be there audibly breathing and lurking among the shadows. Her
short-sighted eyes strained through them, half-discerning an actual
presence, something aloof, that watched and knew; and in the recoil from
that intangible propinquity she threw herself suddenly on the bell-rope
and gave it a desperate pull.
The long, quavering summons brought Trimmle in precipitately with a
lamp, and Mary breathed again at this sobering reappearance of the
usual.
“You may bring tea if Mr. Boyne is in,” she said, to justify her ring.
“Very well, Madam. But Mr. Boyne is not in,” said Trimmle, putting down
the lamp.
“Not in? You mean he’s come back and gone out again?”
“No, Madam. He’s never been back.”
The dread stirred again, and Mary knew that now it had her fast.
“Not since he went out with--the gentleman?”
“Not since he went out with the gentleman.”
“But who was the gentleman?” Mary gasped out, with the sharp note of
some one trying to be heard through a confusion of meaningless noises.
“That I couldn’t say, Madam.” Trimmle, standing there by the lamp,
seemed suddenly to grow less round and rosy, as though eclipsed by the
same creeping shade of apprehension.
“But the kitchen-maid knows--wasn’t it the kitchen-maid who let him in?”
“She doesn’t know either, Madam, for he wrote his name on a folded
paper.”
Mary, through her agitation, was aware that they were both designating
the unknown visitor by a vague pronoun, instead of the conventional
formula which, till then, had kept their allusions within the bounds of
custom. And at the same moment her mind caught at the suggestion of the
folded paper.
“But he must have a name! Where is the paper?”
She moved to the desk, and began to turn over the scattered documents
that littered it. The first that caught her eye was an unfinished letter
in her husband’s hand, with his pen lying across it, as though dropped
there at a sudden summons.
“My dear Parvis,”--who was Parvis?--“I have just received your letter
announcing Elwell’s death, and while I suppose there is now no farther
risk of trouble, it might be safer--”
She tossed the sheet aside, and continued her search; but no folded
paper was discoverable among the letters and pages of manuscript which
had been swept together in a promiscuous heap, as if by a hurried or a
startled gesture.
“But the kitchen-maid saw him. Send her here,” she commanded,
wondering at her dullness in not thinking sooner of so simple a
solution.
Trimmle, at the behest, vanished in a flash, as if thankful to be out
of the room, and when she reappeared, conducting the agitated underling,
Mary had regained her self-possession, and had her questions pat.
The gentleman was a stranger, yes--that she understood. But what had he
said? And, above all, what had he looked like? The first question was
easily enough answered, for the disconcerting reason that he had said so
little--had merely asked for Mr. Boyne, and, scribbling something on a
bit of paper, had requested that it should at once be carried in to him.
“Then you don’t know what he wrote? You’re not sure it was his name?”
The kitchen-maid was not sure, but supposed it was, since he had written
it in answer to her inquiry as to whom she should announce.
“And when you carried the paper in to Mr. Boyne, what did he say?”
The kitchen-maid did not think that Mr. Boyne had said anything, but she
could not be sure, for just as she had handed him the paper and he was
opening it, she had become aware that the visitor had followed her
into the library, and she had slipped out, leaving the two gentlemen
together.
“But then, if you left them in the library, how do you know that they
went out of the house?”
This question plunged the witness into momentary inarticulateness,
from which she was rescued by Trimmle, who, by means of ingenious
circumlocutions, elicited the statement that before she could cross the
hall to the back passage she had heard the gentlemen behind her, and had
seen them go out of the front door together.
“Then, if you saw the gentleman twice, you must be able to tell me what
he looked like.”
But with this final challenge to her powers of expression it became
clear that the limit of the kitchen-maid’s endurance had been reached.
The obligation of going to the front door to “show in” a visitor was
in itself so subversive of the fundamental order of things that it had
thrown her faculties into hopeless disarray, and she could only stammer
out, after various panting efforts at evocation, “His hat, mum, was
different-like, as you might say--”
“Different? How different?” Mary flashed out at her, her own mind, in
the same instant, leaping back to an image left on it that morning, but
temporarily lost under layers of subsequent impressions.
“His hat had a wide brim, you mean? and his face was pale--a youngish
face?” Mary pressed her, with a white-lipped intensity of interrogation.
But if the kitchen-maid found any adequate answer to this challenge,
it was swept away for her listener down the rushing current of her own
convictions. The stranger--the stranger in the garden! Why had Mary not
thought of him before? She needed no one now to tell her that it was he
who had called for her husband and gone away with him. But who was he,
and why had Boyne obeyed his call?
IV
It leaped out at her suddenly, like a grin out of the dark, that they
had often called England so little--“such a confoundedly hard place to
get lost in.”
A confoundedly hard place to get lost in! That had been her husband’s
phrase. And now, with the whole machinery of official investigation
sweeping its flash-lights from shore to shore, and across the dividing
straits; now, with Boyne’s name blazing from the walls of every town
and village, his portrait (how that wrung her!) hawked up and down the
country like the image of a hunted criminal; now the little compact,
populous island, so policed, surveyed, and administered, revealed itself
as a Sphinx-like guardian of abysmal mysteries, staring back into his
wife’s anguished eyes as if with the malicious joy of knowing something
they would never know!
In the fortnight since Boyne’s disappearance there had been no word of
him, no trace of his movements. Even the usual misleading reports that
raise expectancy in tortured bosoms had been few and fleeting. No one
but the bewildered kitchen-maid had seen him leave the house, and no one
else had seen “the gentleman” who accompanied him. All inquiries in the
neighborhood failed to elicit the memory of a stranger’s presence that
day in the neighborhood of Lyng. And no one had met Edward Boyne, either
alone or in company, in any of the neighboring villages, or on the road
across the downs, or at either of the local railway-stations. The sunny
English noon had swallowed him as completely as if he had gone out into
Cimmerian night.
Mary, while every external means of investigation was working at its
highest pressure, had ransacked her husband’s papers for any trace of
antecedent complications, of entanglements or obligations unknown to
her, that might throw a faint ray into the darkness. But if any such
had existed in the background of Boyne’s life, they had disappeared as
completely as the slip of paper on which the visitor had written his
name. There remained no possible thread of guidance except--if it were
indeed an exception--the letter which Boyne had apparently been in the
act of writing when he received his mysterious summons. That letter,
read and reread by his wife, and submitted by her to the police, yielded
little enough for conjecture to feed on.
“I have just heard of Elwell’s death, and while I suppose there is now
no farther risk of trouble, it might be safer--” That was all. The “risk
of trouble” was easily explained by the newspaper clipping which had
apprised Mary of the suit brought against her husband by one of his
associates in the Blue Star enterprise. The only new information
conveyed in the letter was the fact of its showing Boyne, when he wrote
it, to be still apprehensive of the results of the suit, though he
had assured his wife that it had been withdrawn, and though the letter
itself declared that the plaintiff was dead. It took several weeks
of exhaustive cabling to fix the identity of the “Parvis” to whom the
fragmentary communication was addressed, but even after these inquiries
had shown him to be a Waukesha lawyer, no new facts concerning the
Elwell suit were elicited. He appeared to have had no direct concern
in it, but to have been conversant with the facts merely as an
acquaintance, and possible intermediary; and he declared himself unable
to divine with what object Boyne intended to seek his assistance.
This negative information, sole fruit of the first fortnight’s feverish
search, was not increased by a jot during the slow weeks that followed.
Mary knew that the investigations were still being carried on, but she
had a vague sense of their gradually slackening, as the actual march of
time seemed to slacken. It was as though the days, flying horror-struck
from the shrouded image of the one inscrutable day, gained assurance as
the distance lengthened, till at last they fell back into their normal
gait. And so with the human imaginations at work on the dark event. No
doubt it occupied them still, but week by week and hour by hour it grew
less absorbing, took up less space, was slowly but inevitably crowded
out of the foreground of consciousness by the new problems perpetually
bubbling up from the vaporous caldron of human experience.
Even Mary Boyne’s consciousness gradually felt the same lowering of
velocity. It still swayed with the incessant oscillations of conjecture;
but they were slower, more rhythmical in their beat. There were moments
of overwhelming lassitude when, like the victim of some poison which
leaves the brain clear, but holds the body motionless, she saw herself
domesticated with the Horror, accepting its perpetual presence as one of
the fixed conditions of life.
These moments lengthened into hours and days, till she passed into a
phase of stolid acquiescence. She watched the familiar routine of life
with the incurious eye of a savage on whom the meaningless processes of
civilization make but the faintest impression. She had come to regard
herself as part of the routine, a spoke of the wheel, revolving with its
motion; she felt almost like the furniture of the room in which she sat,
an insensate object to be dusted and pushed about with the chairs and
tables. And this deepening apathy held her fast at Lyng, in spite of
the urgent entreaties of friends and the usual medical recommendation of
“change.” Her friends supposed that her refusal to move was inspired by
the belief that her husband would one day return to the spot from which
he had vanished, and a beautiful legend grew up about this imaginary
state of waiting. But in reality she had no such belief: the depths of
anguish inclosing her were no longer lighted by flashes of hope. She was
sure that Boyne would never come back, that he had gone out of her sight
as completely as if Death itself had waited that day on the threshold.
She had even renounced, one by one, the various theories as to his
disappearance which had been advanced by the press, the police, and her
own agonized imagination. In sheer lassitude her mind turned from these
alternatives of horror, and sank back into the blank fact that he was
gone.
No, she would never know what had become of him--no one would ever know.
But the house knew; the library in which she spent her long, lonely
evenings knew. For it was here that the last scene had been enacted,
here that the stranger had come, and spoken the word which had caused
Boyne to rise and follow him. The floor she trod had felt his tread; the
books on the shelves had seen his face; and there were moments when the
intense consciousness of the old, dusky walls seemed about to break out
into some audible revelation of their secret. But the revelation
never came, and she knew it would never come. Lyng was not one of the
garrulous old houses that betray the secrets intrusted to them. Its
very legend proved that it had always been the mute accomplice, the
incorruptible custodian of the mysteries it had surprised. And Mary
Boyne, sitting face to face with its portentous silence, felt the
futility of seeking to break it by any human means.
V
“I don’t say it wasn’t straight, yet don’t say it was straight. It
was business.”
Mary, at the words, lifted her head with a start, and looked intently at
the speaker.
When, half an hour before, a card with “Mr. Parvis” on it had been
brought up to her, she had been immediately aware that the name had been
a part of her consciousness ever since she had read it at the head of
Boyne’s unfinished letter. In the library she had found awaiting her a
small neutral-tinted man with a bald head and gold eye-glasses, and it
sent a strange tremor through her to know that this was the person to
whom her husband’s last known thought had been directed.
Parvis, civilly, but without vain preamble,--in the manner of a man who
has his watch in his hand,--had set forth the object of his visit.
He had “run over” to England on business, and finding himself in the
neighborhood of Dorchester, had not wished to leave it without paying
his respects to Mrs. Boyne; without asking her, if the occasion offered,
what she meant to do about Bob Elwell’s family.
The words touched the spring of some obscure dread in Mary’s bosom.
Did her visitor, after all, know what Boyne had meant by his unfinished
phrase? She asked for an elucidation of his question, and noticed at
once that he seemed surprised at her continued ignorance of the subject.
Was it possible that she really knew as little as she said?
“I know nothing--you must tell me,” she faltered out; and her visitor
thereupon proceeded to unfold his story. It threw, even to her confused
perceptions, and imperfectly initiated vision, a lurid glare on the
whole hazy episode of the Blue Star Mine. Her husband had made his money
in that brilliant speculation at the cost of “getting ahead” of some one
less alert to seize the chance; the victim of his ingenuity was young
Robert Elwell, who had “put him on” to the Blue Star scheme.
Parvis, at Mary’s first startled cry, had thrown her a sobering glance
through his impartial glasses.
“Bob Elwell wasn’t smart enough, that’s all; if he had been, he might
have turned round and served Boyne the same way. It’s the kind of thing
that happens every day in business. I guess it’s what the scientists
call the survival of the fittest,” said Mr. Parvis, evidently pleased
with the aptness of his analogy.
Mary felt a physical shrinking from the next question she tried to
frame; it was as though the words on her lips had a taste that nauseated
her.
“But then--you accuse my husband of doing something dishonorable?”
Mr. Parvis surveyed the question dispassionately. “Oh, no, I don’t.
I don’t even say it wasn’t straight.” He glanced up and down the long
lines of books, as if one of them might have supplied him with the
definition he sought. “I don’t say it wasn’t straight, and yet I don’t
say it was straight. It was business.” After all, no definition in his
category could be more comprehensive than that.
Mary sat staring at him with a look of terror. He seemed to her like the
indifferent, implacable emissary of some dark, formless power.
“But Mr. Elwell’s lawyers apparently did not take your view, since I
suppose the suit was withdrawn by their advice.”
“Oh, yes, they knew he hadn’t a leg to stand on, technically. It was
when they advised him to withdraw the suit that he got desperate. You
see, he’d borrowed most of the money he lost in the Blue Star, and he
was up a tree. That’s why he shot himself when they told him he had no
show.”
The horror was sweeping over Mary in great, deafening waves.
“He shot himself? He killed himself because of that?”
“Well, he didn’t kill himself, exactly. He dragged on two months before
he died.” Parvis emitted the statement as unemotionally as a gramophone
grinding out its “record.”
“You mean that he tried to kill himself, and failed? And tried again?”
“Oh, he didn’t have to try again,” said Parvis, grimly.
They sat opposite each other in silence, he swinging his eye-glass
thoughtfully about his finger, she, motionless, her arms stretched along
her knees in an attitude of rigid tension.
“But if you knew all this,” she began at length, hardly able to force
her voice above a whisper, “how is it that when I wrote you at the
time of my husband’s disappearance you said you didn’t understand his
letter?”
Parvis received this without perceptible discomfiture. “Why, I didn’t
understand it--strictly speaking. And it wasn’t the time to talk
about it, if I had. The Elwell business was settled when the suit was
withdrawn. Nothing I could have told you would have helped you to find
your husband.”
Mary continued to scrutinize him. “Then why are you telling me now?”
Still Parvis did not hesitate. “Well, to begin with, I supposed you
knew more than you appear to--I mean about the circumstances of Elwell’s
death. And then people are talking of it now; the whole matter’s been
raked up again. And I thought, if you didn’t know, you ought to.”
She remained silent, and he continued: “You see, it’s only come out
lately what a bad state Elwell’s affairs were in. His wife’s a proud
woman, and she fought on as long as she could, going out to work, and
taking sewing at home, when she got too sick--something with the heart,
I believe. But she had his bedridden mother to look after, and the
children, and she broke down under it, and finally had to ask for help.
That attracted attention to the case, and the papers took it up, and a
subscription was started. Everybody out there liked Bob Elwell, and most
of the prominent names in the place are down on the list, and people
began to wonder why--”
Parvis broke off to fumble in an inner pocket. “Here,” he continued,
“here’s an account of the whole thing from the ‘Sentinel’--a little
sensational, of course. But I guess you’d better look it over.”
He held out a newspaper to Mary, who unfolded it slowly, remembering,
as she did so, the evening when, in that same room, the perusal of
a clipping from the “Sentinel” had first shaken the depths of her
security.
As she opened the paper, her eyes, shrinking from the glaring
head-lines, “Widow of Boyne’s Victim Forced to Appeal for Aid,” ran down
the column of text to two portraits inserted in it. The first was
her husband’s, taken from a photograph made the year they had come to
England. It was the picture of him that she liked best, the one that
stood on the writing-table up-stairs in her bedroom. As the eyes in the
photograph met hers, she felt it would be impossible to read what was
said of him, and closed her lids with the sharpness of the pain.
“I thought if you felt disposed to put your name down--” she heard
Parvis continue.
She opened her eyes with an effort, and they fell on the other portrait.
It was that of a youngish man, slightly built, in rough clothes, with
features somewhat blurred by the shadow of a projecting hat-brim. Where
had she seen that outline before? She stared at it confusedly, her heart
hammering in her throat and ears. Then she gave a cry.
“This is the man--the man who came for my husband!”
She heard Parvis start to his feet, and was dimly aware that she had
slipped backward into the corner of the sofa, and that he was bending
above her in alarm. With an intense effort she straightened herself, and
reached out for the paper, which she had dropped.
“It’s the man! I should know him anywhere!” she cried in a voice that
sounded in her own ears like a scream.
Parvis’s voice seemed to come to her from far off, down endless,
fog-muffled windings.
“Mrs. Boyne, you’re not very well. Shall I call somebody? Shall I get a
glass of water?”
“No, no, no!” She threw herself toward him, her hand frantically
clenching the newspaper. “I tell you, it’s the man! I know him! He
spoke to me in the garden!”
Parvis took the journal from her, directing his glasses to the portrait.
“It can’t be, Mrs. Boyne. It’s Robert Elwell.”
“Robert Elwell?” Her white stare seemed to travel into space. “Then it
was Robert Elwell who came for him.”
“Came for Boyne? The day he went away?” Parvis’s voice dropped as hers
rose. He bent over, laying a fraternal hand on her, as if to coax her
gently back into her seat. “Why, Elwell was dead! Don’t you remember?”
Mary sat with her eyes fixed on the picture, unconscious of what he was
saying.
“Don’t you remember Boyne’s unfinished letter to me--the one you found
on his desk that day? It was written just after he’d heard of Elwell’s
death.” She noticed an odd shake in Parvis’s unemotional voice. “Surely
you remember that!” he urged her.
Yes, she remembered: that was the profoundest horror of it. Elwell had
died the day before her husband’s disappearance; and this was Elwell’s
portrait; and it was the portrait of the man who had spoken to her in
the garden. She lifted her head and looked slowly about the library. The
library could have borne witness that it was also the portrait of the
man who had come in that day to call Boyne from his unfinished letter.
Through the misty surgings of her brain she heard the faint boom
of half-forgotten words--words spoken by Alida Stair on the lawn at
Pangbourne before Boyne and his wife had ever seen the house at Lyng, or
had imagined that they might one day live there.
“This was the man who spoke to me,” she repeated.
She looked again at Parvis. He was trying to conceal his disturbance
under what he imagined to be an expression of indulgent commiseration;
but the edges of his lips were blue. “He thinks me mad; but I’m not
mad,” she reflected; and suddenly there flashed upon her a way of
justifying her strange affirmation.
She sat quiet, controlling the quiver of her lips, and waiting till she
could trust her voice to keep its habitual level; then she said, looking
straight at Parvis: “Will you answer me one question, please? When was
it that Robert Elwell tried to kill himself?”
“When--when?” Parvis stammered.
“Yes; the date. Please try to remember.”
She saw that he was growing still more afraid of her. “I have a reason,”
 she insisted gently.
“Yes, yes. Only I can’t remember. About two months before, I should
say.”
“I want the date,” she repeated.
Parvis picked up the newspaper. “We might see here,” he said, still
humoring her. He ran his eyes down the page. “Here it is. Last
October--the--”
She caught the words from him. “The 20th, wasn’t it?” With a sharp look
at her, he verified. “Yes, the 20th. Then you did know?”
“I know now.” Her white stare continued to travel past him. “Sunday, the
20th--that was the day he came first.”
Parvis’s voice was almost inaudible. “Came here first?”
“Yes.”
“You saw him twice, then?”
“Yes, twice.” She breathed it at him with dilated eyes. “He came first
on the 20th of October. I remember the date because it was the day
we went up Meldon Steep for the first time.” She felt a faint gasp
of inward laughter at the thought that but for that she might have
forgotten.
Parvis continued to scrutinize her, as if trying to intercept her gaze.
“We saw him from the roof,” she went on. “He came down the lime-avenue
toward the house. He was dressed just as he is in that picture. My
husband saw him first. He was frightened, and ran down ahead of me; but
there was no one there. He had vanished.”
“Elwell had vanished?” Parvis faltered.
“Yes.” Their two whispers seemed to grope for each other. “I couldn’t
think what had happened. I see now. He tried to come then; but he
wasn’t dead enough--he couldn’t reach us. He had to wait for two months;
and then he came back again--and Ned went with him.”
She nodded at Parvis with the look of triumph of a child who has
successfully worked out a difficult puzzle. But suddenly she lifted her
hands with a desperate gesture, pressing them to her bursting temples.
“Oh, my God! I sent him to Ned--I told him where to go! I sent him to
this room!” she screamed out.
She felt the walls of the room rush toward her, like inward falling
ruins; and she heard Parvis, a long way off, as if through the ruins,
crying to her, and struggling to get at her. But she was numb to his
touch, she did not know what he was saying. Through the tumult she heard
but one clear note, the voice of Alida Stair, speaking on the lawn at
Pangbourne.
“You won’t know till afterward,” it said. “You won’t know till long,
long afterward.”
THE LETTERS
I
UP the long hill from the station at St.-Cloud, Lizzie West climbed in
the cold spring sunshine. As she breasted the incline, she noticed the
first waves of wistaria over courtyard railings and the high lights of
new foliage against the walls of ivy-matted gardens; and she thought
again, as she had thought a hundred times before, that she had never
seen so beautiful a spring.
She was on her way to the Deerings’ house, in a street near the hilltop;
and every step was dear and familiar to her. She went there five times
a week to teach little Juliet Deering, the daughter of Mr. Vincent
Deering, the distinguished American artist. Juliet had been her pupil
for two years, and day after day, during that time, Lizzie West had
mounted the hill in all weathers; sometimes with her umbrella bent
against a driving rain, sometimes with her frail cotton parasol unfurled
beneath a fiery sun, sometimes with the snow soaking through her patched
boots or a bitter wind piercing her thin jacket, sometimes with the dust
whirling about her and bleaching the flowers of the poor little hat that
had to “carry her through” till next summer.
At first the ascent had seemed tedious enough, as dull as the trudge to
her other lessons. Lizzie was not a heaven-sent teacher; she had no born
zeal for her calling, and though she dealt kindly and dutifully with her
pupils, she did not fly to them on winged feet. But one day something
had happened to change the face of life, and since then the climb to the
Deering house had seemed like a dream-flight up a heavenly stairway.
Her heart beat faster as she remembered it--no longer in a tumult of
fright and self-reproach, but softly, peacefully, as if brooding over a
possession that none could take from her.
It was on a day of the previous October that she had stopped, after
Juliet’s lesson, to ask if she might speak to Juliet’s papa. One had
always to apply to Mr. Deering if there was anything to be said about
the lessons. Mrs. Deering lay on her lounge up-stairs, reading greasy
relays of dog-eared novels, the choice of which she left to the cook
and the nurse, who were always fetching them for her from the cabinet
de lecture; and it was understood in the house that she was not to be
“bothered” about Juliet. Mr. Deering’s interest in his daughter was
fitful rather than consecutive; but at least he was approachable, and
listened sympathetically, if a little absently, stroking his long, fair
mustache, while Lizzie stated her difficulty or put in her plea for maps
or copy-books.
“Yes, yes--of course--whatever you think right,” he would always assent,
sometimes drawing a five-franc piece from his pocket, and laying it
carelessly on the table, or oftener saying, with his charming smile:
“Get what you please, and just put it on your account, you know.”
But this time Lizzie had not come to ask for maps or copy-books, or
even to hint, in crimson misery,--as once, poor soul! she had had
to do,--that Mr. Deering had overlooked her last little account had
probably not noticed that she had left it, some two months earlier, on
a corner of his littered writing-table. That hour had been bad enough,
though he had done his best to make it easy to carry it off gallantly
and gaily; but this was infinitely worse. For she had come to complain
of her pupil; to say that, much as she loved little Juliet, it was
useless, unless Mr. Deering could “do something,” to go on with the
lessons.
“It wouldn’t be honest--I should be robbing you; I’m not sure that I
haven’t already,” she half laughed, through mounting tears, as she
put her case. Little Juliet would not work, would not obey. Her poor,
little, drifting existence floated aimlessly between the kitchen and the
lingerie, and all the groping tendrils of her curiosity were fastened
about the doings of the backstairs.
It was the same kind of curiosity that Mrs. Deering, overhead in her
drug-scented room, lavished on her dog-eared novels and on the “society
notes” of the morning paper; but since Juliet’s horizon was not yet wide
enough to embrace these loftier objects, her interest was centered in
the anecdotes that Celeste and Suzanne brought back from the market
and the library. That these were not always of an edifying nature the
child’s artless prattle too often betrayed; but unhappily they occupied
her fancy to the complete exclusion of such nourishing items as dates
and dynasties, and the sources of the principal European rivers.
At length the crisis became so acute that poor Lizzie felt herself bound
to resign her charge or ask Mr. Deering’s intervention; and for Juliet’s
sake she chose the harder alternative. It was hard to speak to him not
only because one hated still more to ascribe it to such vulgar causes,
but because one blushed to bring them to the notice of a spirit engaged
with higher things. Mr. Deering was very busy at that moment: he had a
new picture “on.” And Lizzie entered the studio with the flutter of one
profanely intruding on some sacred rite; she almost heard the rustle of
retreating wings as she approached.
And then--and then--how differently it had all turned out! Perhaps it
wouldn’t have, if she hadn’t been such a goose--she who so seldom cried,
so prided herself on a stoic control of her little twittering cageful of
“feelings.” But if she had cried, it was because he had looked at her so
kindly, so softly, and because she had nevertheless felt him so pained
and shamed by what she said. The pain, of course, lay for both in the
implication behind her words--in the one word they left unspoken.
If little Juliet was as she was, it was because of the mother
up-stairs--the mother who had given her child her futile impulses, and
grudged her the care that might have guided them. The wretched case so
obviously revolved in its own vicious circle that when Mr. Deering had
murmured, “Of course if my wife were not an invalid,” they both turned
with a simultaneous spring to the flagrant “bad example” of Celeste and
Suzanne, fastening on that with a mutual insistence that ended in his
crying out, “All the more, then, how can you leave her to them?”
“But if I do her no good?” Lizzie wailed; and it was then that,--when he
took her hand and assured her gently, “But you do, you do!”--it was then
that, in the traditional phrase, she “broke down,” and her conventional
protest quivered off into tears.
“You do me good, at any rate--you make the house seem less like a
desert,” she heard him say; and the next moment she felt herself drawn
to him, and they kissed each other through her weeping.
They kissed each other--there was the new fact. One does not, if one is
a poor little teacher living in Mme. Clopin’s Pension Suisse at Passy,
and if one has pretty brown hair and eyes that reach out trustfully to
other eyes--one does not, under these common but defenseless
conditions, arrive at the age of twenty-five without being now and then
kissed,--waylaid once by a noisy student between two doors, surprised
once by one’s gray-bearded professor as one bent over the “theme” he was
correcting,--but these episodes, if they tarnish the surface, do not
reach the heart: it is not the kiss endured, but the kiss returned, that
lives. And Lizzie West’s first kiss was for Vincent Deering.
As she drew back from it, something new awoke in her--something deeper
than the fright and the shame, and the penitent thought of Mrs. Deering.
A sleeping germ of life thrilled and unfolded, and started out blindly
to seek the sun.
She might have felt differently, perhaps,--the shame and penitence might
have prevailed,--had she not known him so kind and tender, and guessed
him so baffled, poor, and disappointed. She knew the failure of his
married life, and she divined a corresponding failure in his artistic
career. Lizzie, who had made her own faltering snatch at the same
laurels, brought her thwarted proficiency to bear on the question of his
pictures, which she judged to be extremely brilliant, but suspected of
having somehow failed to affirm their merit publicly. She understood
that he had tasted an earlier moment of success: a mention, a medal,
something official and tangible; then the tide of publicity had somehow
set the other way, and left him stranded in a noble isolation. It was
extraordinary and unbelievable that any one so naturally eminent and
exceptional should have been subject to the same vulgar necessities
that governed her own life, should have known poverty and obscurity and
indifference. But she gathered that this had been the case, and felt
that it formed the miraculous link between them. For through what
medium less revealing than that of shared misfortune would he ever have
perceived so inconspicuous an object as herself? And she recalled now
how gently his eyes had rested on her from the first--the gray eyes that
might have seemed mocking if they had not been so gentle.
She remembered how he had met her the first day, when Mrs. Deering’s
inevitable headache had prevented her from receiving the new teacher,
and how his few questions had at once revealed his interest in the
little stranded, compatriot, doomed to earn a precarious living so far
from her native shore. Sweet as the moment of unburdening had been,
she wondered afterward what had determined it: how she, so shy and
sequestered, had found herself letting slip her whole poverty-stricken
story, even to the avowal of the ineffectual “artistic” tendencies that
had drawn her to Paris, and had then left her there to the dry task of
tuition. She wondered at first, but she understood now; she understood
everything after he had kissed her. It was simply because he was as kind
as he was great.
She thought of this now as she mounted the hill in the spring sunshine,
and she thought of all that had happened since. The intervening months,
as she looked back at them, were merged in a vast golden haze, through
which here and there rose the outline of a shining island. The haze was
the general enveloping sense of his love, and the shining islands were
the days they had spent together. They had never kissed again under his
own roof. Lizzie’s professional honor had a keen edge, but she had been
spared the vulgar necessity of making him feel it. It was of the essence
of her fatality that he always “understood” when his failing to do so
might have imperiled his hold on her.
But her Thursdays and Sundays were free, and it soon became a habit to
give them to him. She knew, for her peace of mind, only too much about
pictures, and galleries and churches had been the one bright outlet from
the grayness of her personal atmosphere. For poetry, too, and the other
imaginative forms of literature, she had always felt more than she had
hitherto had occasion to betray; and now all these folded sympathies
shot out their tendrils to the light. Mr. Deering knew how to express
with unmatched clearness and competence the thoughts that trembled
in her mind: to talk with him was to soar up into the azure on
the outspread wings of his intelligence, and look down dizzily yet
distinctly, on all the wonders and glories of the world. She was a
little ashamed, sometimes, to find how few definite impressions she
brought back from these flights; but that was doubtless because her
heart beat so fast when he was near, and his smile made his words like
a long quiver of light. Afterward, in quieter hours, fragments of
their talk emerged in her memory with wondrous precision, every syllable
as minutely chiseled as some of the delicate objects in crystal or
ivory that he pointed out in the museums they frequented. It was always
a puzzle to Lizzie that some of their hours should be so blurred and
others so vivid.
On the morning in question she was reliving all these memories with
unusual distinctness, for it was a fortnight since she had seen her
friend. Mrs. Deering, some six weeks previously, had gone to visit a
relation at St.-Raphael; and, after she had been a month absent, her
husband and the little girl had joined her. Lizzie’s adieux to Deering
had been made on a rainy afternoon in the damp corridors of the Aquarium
at the Trocadero. She could not receive him at her own pension. That a
teacher should be visited by the father of a pupil, especially when that
father was still, as Madame Clopin said, si bien, was against that
lady’s austere Helvetian code. From Deering’s first tentative hint of
another solution Lizzie had recoiled in a wild unreasoned flurry of all
her scruples, he took her “No, no, no!” as he took all her twists and
turns of conscience, with eyes half-tender and half-mocking, and an
instant acquiescence which was the finest homage to the “lady” she felt
he divined and honored in her.
So they continued to meet in museums and galleries, or to extend, on
fine days, their explorations to the suburbs, where now and then, in
the solitude of grove or garden, the kiss renewed itself, fleeting,
isolated, or prolonged in a shy, silent pressure of the hand. But on
the day of his leave-taking the rain kept them under cover; and as they
threaded the subterranean windings of the Aquarium, and Lizzie looked
unseeingly at the monstrous faces glaring at her through walls of glass,
she felt like a poor drowned wretch at the bottom of the sea, with all
her glancing, sunlit memories rolling over her like the waves of its
surface.
“You’ll never see him again--never see him again,” the waves boomed in
her ears through his last words; and when she had said good-by to him
at the corner, and had scrambled, wet and shivering, into the Passy
omnibus, its great, grinding wheels took up the derisive burden--“Never
see him, never see him again.”
All that was only two weeks ago, and here she was, as happy as a lark,
mounting the hill to his door in the spring sunshine. So weak a heart
did not deserve such a radiant fate; and Lizzie said to herself that she
would never again distrust her star.
II
THE cracked bell tinkled sweetly through her heart as she stood
listening for the scamper of Juliet’s feet. Juliet, anticipating the
laggard Suzanne, almost always opened the door for her governess, not
from any unnatural zeal to hasten the hour of her studies, but from the
irrepressible desire to see what was going on in the street. But on this
occasion Lizzie listened vainly for a step, and at length gave the bell
another twitch. Doubtless some unusually absorbing incident had detained
the child below-stairs; thus only could her absence be explained.
A third ring produced no response, and Lizzie, full of dawning fears,
drew back to look up at the shabby, blistered house. She saw that the
studio shutters stood wide, and then noticed, without surprise, that
Mrs. Deering’s were still unopened. No doubt Mrs. Deering was resting
after the fatigue of the journey. Instinctively Lizzie’s eyes turned
again to the studio; and as she looked, she saw Deering at the window.
He caught sight of her, and an instant later came to the door. He looked
paler than usual, and she noticed that he wore a black coat.
“I rang and rang--where is Juliet?”
He looked at her gravely, almost solemnly; then, without answering, he
led her down the passage to the studio, and closed the door when she had
entered.
“My wife is dead--she died suddenly ten days ago. Didn’t you see it in
the papers?”
Lizzie, with a little cry, sank down on the rickety divan. She seldom
saw a newspaper, since she could not afford one for her own perusal, and
those supplied to the Pension Clopin were usually in the hands of its
more privileged lodgers till long after the hour when she set out on her
morning round.
“No; I didn’t see it,” she stammered.
Deering was silent. He stood a little way off, twisting an unlit
cigarette in his hand, and looking down at her with a gaze that was both
hesitating and constrained.
She, too, felt the constraint of the situation, the impossibility of
finding words that, after what had passed between them, should seem
neither false nor heartless; and at last she exclaimed, standing up:
“Poor little Juliet! Can’t I go to her?”
“Juliet is not here. I left her at St.-Raphael with the relations with
whom my wife was staying.”
“Oh,” Lizzie murmured, feeling vaguely that this added to the difficulty
of the moment. How differently she had pictured their meeting!
“I’m so--so sorry for her!” she faltered out.
Deering made no reply, but, turning on his heel, walked the length of
the studio, and then halted vaguely before the picture on the easel. It
was the landscape he had begun the previous autumn, with the
intention of sending it to the Salon that spring. But it was still
unfinished--seemed, indeed, hardly more advanced than on the fateful
October day when Lizzie, standing before it for the first time, had
confessed her inability to deal with Juliet. Perhaps the same thought
struck its creator, for he broke into a dry laugh, and turned from the
easel with a shrug.
Under his protracted silence Lizzie roused herself to the fact that,
since her pupil was absent, there was no reason for her remaining any
longer; and as Deering again moved toward her she said with an effort:
“I’ll go, then. You’ll send for me when she comes back?”
Deering still hesitated, tormenting the cigarette between his fingers.
“She’s not coming back--not at present.”
Lizzie heard him with a drop of the heart. Was everything to be changed
in their lives? But of course; how could she have dreamed it would be
otherwise? She could only stupidly repeat: “Not coming back? Not this
spring?”
“Probably not, since are friends are so good as to keep her. The fact
is, I’ve got to go to America. My wife left a little property, a few
pennies, that I must go and see to--for the child.”
Lizzie stood before him, a cold knife in her breast. “I see--I see,”
 she reiterated, feeling all the while that she strained her eyes into
impenetrable blackness.
“It’s a nuisance, having to pull up stakes,” he went on, with a fretful
glance about the studio.
She lifted her eyes slowly to his face. “Shall you be gone long?” she
took courage to ask.
“There again--I can’t tell. It’s all so frightfully mixed up.” He met
her look for an incredibly long, strange moment. “I hate to go!” he
murmured as if to himself.
Lizzie felt a rush of moisture to her lashes, and the old, familiar
wave of weakness at her heart. She raised her hand to her face with an
instinctive gesture, and as she did so he held out his arms.
“Come here, Lizzie!” he said.
And she went--went with a sweet, wild throb of liberation, with the
sense that at last the house was his, that she was his, if he wanted
her; that never again would that silent, rebuking presence in the room
above constrain and shame her rapture.
He pushed back her veil and covered her face with kisses. “Don’t cry,
you little goose!” he said.
III
THAT they must see each other again before his departure, in someplace
less exposed than their usual haunts, was as clear to Lizzie as it
appeared to be to Deering. His expressing the wish seemed, indeed, the
sweetest testimony to the quality of his feeling, since, in the first
weeks of the most perfunctory widowerhood, a man of his stamp is
presumed to abstain from light adventures. If, then, at such a moment,
he wished so much to be quietly and gravely with her, it could be only
for reasons she did not call by name, but of which she felt the sacred
tremor in her heart; and it would have seemed incredibly vain and vulgar
to put forward, at such a crisis, the conventional objections by means
of which such little-exposed existences defend the treasure of their
freshness.
In such a mood as this one may descend from the Passy omnibus at the
corner of the Pont de la Concorde (she had not let him fetch her in a
cab) with a sense of dedication almost solemn, and may advance to meet
one’s fate, in the shape of a gentleman of melancholy elegance, with an
auto-taxi at his call, as one has advanced to the altar-steps in some
girlish bridal vision.
Even the experienced waiter ushering them into an upper room of the
quiet restaurant on the Seine could hardly have supposed their quest
for seclusion to be based on sentimental motives, so soberly did Deering
give his orders, while his companion sat small and grave at his side.
She did not, indeed, mean to let her private pang obscure their hour
together: she was already learning that Deering shrank from sadness.
He should see that she had courage and gaiety to face their coming
separation, and yet give herself meanwhile to this completer nearness;
but she waited, as always, for him to strike the opening note.
Looking back at it later, she wondered at the mild suavity of the hour.
Her heart was unversed in happiness, but he had found the tone to lull
her apprehensions, and make her trust her fate for any golden wonder.
Deepest of all, he gave her the sense of something tacit and confirmed
between them, as if his tenderness were a habit of the heart hardly
needing the support of outward proof.
Such proof as he offered came, therefore, as a kind of crowning
luxury, the flower of a profoundly rooted sentiment; and here again the
instinctive reserves and defenses would have seemed to vulgarize what
his trust ennobled. But if all the tender casuistries of her heart were
at his service, he took no grave advantage of them. Even when they sat
alone after dinner, with the lights of the river trembling through their
one low window, and the vast rumor of Paris inclosing them in a heart
of silence, he seemed, as much as herself, under the spell of
hallowing influences. She felt it most of all as she yielded to the arm
