I 'm going back that way and I'll send her." 
But Tony had plans of his own. He saw Winterbourne 
well up the road and set out with a man's stride, head down, 
after him. He was going to the house where there lived 
little cakes with holes in the middle. Tony, at this period 
of his life, had the hard lot of one who plays a difficult part. 
He was such a very little boy, and yet, at moments of dash- 
ing imitation, so proficient, that he forgot, and everybody 
else with him, how little he was. Therefore his career was 
dotted with ignominious surrenders. 
Tonty had made only a short call, but Bess thought she 
needed refreshing after it, and had a little plate and a cup 
and saucer waiting on a small table in the sitting-room. 
There was a pitcher with milk in it, and a little teapot with 
hot water in it, and a little sugar-bowl, because Bess knew 
how much rather Tonty would sit down and pour play tea 
for herself than have any number of children's festivals ad- 
ministered as to a child in any arbor. Tonty loved it. She 
got out of her chair and put a small kiss primly on her 
mother's cheek. 
" Should you like to have me come to-morrow? "she in- 
quired. 
 
She herself was not particular. She could not find out 
whether the pink lady known as mother, who never got up, 
really wished to see her or not, and she often found her face 
burning, when she escaped from the prudish little calls, with 
the effort to think of something to say. 
"Yes, Antoinette, come to-morrow," her mother bade 
her. " Brush your hair at night and use the pink paste on 
your elbows." 
Tonty went downstairs then, being familiar with the fact 
that the lady known as mother said queer things, but accept- 
ing it in a child's way because the lady known as Bess seemed 
to accept it. Then she had her little luncheon and poured a 
small cup of cambric tea for Bess, who took it gravely while 
they talked about dolls and whether they liked black ones 
or whether they were just horrid, and then they went off 
together into the shed-chamber where Bess thought she had 
seen a little trunk for a doll's clothes. And Mrs. Ramsay 
lay and looked at the wall-paper and thought of nothing at 
all. The working force, the laboring class of nerve and muscle 
within her, had taken its revenge. It was on strike. Her 
nerves had been driven at the pace of forty thousand motor- 
cars for years and years, and now they had lain down in the 
harness and said, "We won't go at all." Suddenly Mrs. 
Ramsay had discovered how blissful it is to do nothing, and 
neither ideals nor shame under the ministrations of her neigh- 
bors could woo her forth. Bess, the puissant, could not stir 
her. Now, she, had announced, Mrs. Ramsay would be the 
better for an afternoon drive ; but Mrs. Ramsay would not 
hear to it. She did not even answer. She turned her smooth 
brown head on the pillow and said she thought she felt huffy, 
which Bess, considering by skill of her own, interpreted as 
sleepy. 
The lady's illness had roused waves of consternation and 
 
sympathy throughout a world. Letters had come from scores 
of clubs, reminders of imminent engagements, warm expres- 
sions of concern: for Mrs. Ramsay was a power. But for these, 
though she must have known their sources, Mrs. Ramsay 
did not care. " Open them," she said to Bess, when the first 
consignment came over from Mr. Ramsay, helpless in the 
emergency of a wife whose business was a book as tightly 
sealed to him as his had been to her, and they had gone 
naturally into Celia's hands. She was a graceful scribe, and 
wrote charming notes of explanation, venturing, with every 
hint of an engagement not to be fulfilled, to suggest that 
Lilian Winterbourne would sing ballads, and enclosing the 
little circular that had never brought in a return. Only one 
club accepted the proflFer of the unknown Lilian, and when 
Celia, against all probability of her thinking of it with any- 
thing but terror, flew to her in triumph, Bess turned on her 
eyes of amazed reproach. 
" Why, of course I can't," she said. " Who's going to do 
the work ? " 
And Celia was forced to rescind her oflFer, saying, in her 
own fluent way, that she found her sister had an engagement 
for that afternoon. 
Ladies resident in Clyde, hearing that Mrs. Ramsay was 
lying ill at the Winterbournes', called in due form to ask 
for her and tender help. They were darling ladies, of a kind 
almost gone out now except in the illustrations of artists 
who don't know how to do them, and rely on guesses at a 
period that, to their young eyes, might as well be known at 
once as the dark ages. They had every accompaniment of 
a gentler, quainter village civilization but the crinoline. Clyde 
was a place where, though fashion was accurately copied 
among the class that had every opportunity and desire to 
be a smart set, you could wear what clothes you pleased. 
 
Except in the smart set, which might have been better known 
as the flaunting annuals of the garden, changes in deference 
to fashion were unheard of. The votaries of constancy would 
as soon have thought of altering the style of their sleeves 
because some French minion had decreed it, as they would 
of levelling a gambrel roof to a flat one, to suit the season. 
They bought the best material, these dear ladies, and had it 
made up according to a style that had pleased once and kept 
its vogue through worth. Dolmans had been graceful 
and genteel. In Clyde, dolmans never went out. There was 
in every sewing-room great accumulation of narrow black 
velvet ribbon, wide silk fringe, and something known as 
lutestring. With lutestring Lovell's mind had intimate con- 
nection. He used, in his poet days, to hear his mother talk 
of it, and it gave him a thrill, a response to the time of 
spinets and ringlets, that was never to be lost to him. So 
softly-stepping ladies barred with parallels of velvet ribbon 
and tangled with fringe, the only thing about them capable 
of enmeshing, came in their low-heeled shoes to the Winter- 
bournes' door, and often they brought jelly and delicate blanc 
mange, made from the moss itself, no grocer's instantane- 
ous substitute. Celia was always delighted to receive them, 
and they spoke of her afterwards as very pleasing. One 
of them — It was the wife of the old minister who had died 
that year, an ancient lady cut out of ivory, all yellow tones 
in face and hair — said to her, " My dear, I hear you have 
a beautiful voice. Young Dwight Hunter told me so. He 
was seeing to my cistern. We 've had quite a time getting 
it cleaned out." 
It was her sister, Celia brightly conceded. She was ready 
to sing in public, to women's clubs especially. And at that 
instant, to her mortification, Bess came in, just pushing down 
her sleeves and warm from kitchen work. 
 
The minister's wife, through the habit of a long life when 
she was first lady of the town, had no hesitations. She looked 
kindly at Bess, and asked, " So you 're the one, my dear ? 
you 're the one that sings. I wish you 'd sing something to 
me now." 
Celia felt one of her moments of despair. Bess, she knew, 
had her mind on making breadcake and saving Lyddy. How 
should she recall even the words of the songs she had been 
so painstakingly taught ? But Bess just sat down opposite the 
minister's wife, dropped her hands in her lap, — those dear 
plump hands like mothers' hands, that looked sometimes, so 
great was the surge and stress they lived in, as if soapsuds 
had wilfully boiled them, — smiled at the minister's wife 
and asked, " Should you like a hymn ? " 
" We 've no piano here — yet," Celia was beginning; but 
Bess had evidently determined that this was her venture. 
She sang three hymns, and the minister's wife cried. 
" You have a great gift, my dear," she said, as she rose to 
go. " I mustn't keep you now from your invalids, but I 
hope to see your gift made much of. I hope to live to see 
you singing in church." 
To sing in clubs and concert-halls did not much affect the 
minister's wife and the other ladies of her color who pre- 
served the dear traditions of Clyde. They, too, went to the 
meetings of the Woman's Club founded by the annual bed, 
and relished every word, these hardy perennials, with an 
unction the annuals could hardly guess, for it had in it the 
savor of, "It sounds as if it must be so, but, dear us! what 
are we coming to ! " Yet all the strife of factions and the 
reaching out for bette'r things went on without them, as a 
comet may whisk by the ordered stars. They really lived in 
their world of old remembrance, and after the surge and dash 
of dub meeting, they melted softly back to its repose. But the 
 
minister's wife lost no time in telling her intimates among 
the perennials how beautifully Bess had sung, and a stream 
of wilfully ancient-seeming ladies directed itself, day by day, 
to the house, and as regular as their admission was the under- 
standing that Bess should sing to them. For the first time Celia, 
to her perfect amazement, saw her sister delighting in her 
voice and unrestrained in using it. She could not, it seemed, 
be tired in this incidental homely sharing of her gift. Old 
ladies loved her, and the news got round, and the annuals in 
their silken petals came flaunting in, and frightened her and 
she was dumb. To Celia, the world was upside down. 
But something else came of all this. The waves of Mrs. 
Ramsay's illness threw up other treasure on the shore. 
When John Winterbourne had come back, three years be- 
fore, to live in his house, there had been a waft of curiosity 
and interest. Men and women who had known him a little 
in his youth, or been the intimates of his father and mother, 
came to call ; but he never returned the visits. He was im- 
mersed, they found, in his book, and he seemed to show 
them out with haste, not surprising, because they hoped 
they knew the ways of scholars. And he had taken to an inti- 
macy with James Trenton Lovell, and this also was fitting, be- 
cause James was a scholar and a poet, too, though debarred, 
poor fellow ! by his infirmity from entering into the village 
life. But now it became known through the lively interest 
in perennials and annuals that there were at Winterbourne's 
(this in another language, that of the young men who went 
to town daily) two stunning girls, and it was to be hoped, 
when the illness in the family was over, that the town would 
see more of them. 
Celia was in evidence. She often walked abroad, clad in 
gowns that commended themselves almost holily to the 
feminine eye that knew how to distinguish what when it 
 
becomes what, though the young men thought she must be 
a particularly nice girl because she dressed so simply. She 
was really pretty, too, they decided, for her beauty spoke 
for itself without adorning ; and at this their sisters laughed 
aloud and lost no time in enlightening them on the money 
and genius that go into clothes wonderfully conceived and 
simply made. 
These things that were going on below stairs, Catherine 
did not guess. She was thinking how incredible a thing it is 
that man who has once loved us should not love us again, 
and whether she had, as mistress of the house, any duty to 
Mrs. Ramsay as a guest, and whether the moral obliquity in 
Celia was straightening out. She and Mrs. Ramsay, each 
knowing the other had become derelict, had, each for the 
other, a terrified distaste. Far from wanting to talk over their 
ills, they chose not to hear the mention of the other's name. 
Each, an altruist, insisted upon reigning absolute and egotistical 
in the kingdom of rest. This was nature's ironic joke. 
" You can't get the better of me," the great jovial mother 
was saying to them. " Broke my rules, did you ? See how 
you like my reactions." 
But to Mrs. Ramsay lying this morning in her luxury of 
nothingness, came a sound, and perhaps because the mental 
part of her had gone so completely to sleep and nothing was 
left but the human creature that holds the strings of actual 
life, the sound went straight to the core of Mrs. Ramsay, who 
had, though she ignored them as soon as she could rise to 
address a meeting, given birth to beautiful children. It was 
the cry of Tony. He had followed on after Winterbourne, 
at first and as long as he could compass it, with his man's 
stride, and then, when Winterbourne seemed in danger of 
getting out of sight, with the dog-trot of the little boy afraid 
he will be lost. For Tony, though he was not the least of 
 
Mrs. Ramsay's children, was not much used to going out 
alone. They always made their raids as a clan, this family, 
and when, a quarter of a mile away from home, the world- 
loneliness suddenly came upon them, there was always Tonty 
to become mother, by a swift transformation. No matter 
what Tonty was, a pirate or a redskin, you had only to call 
on the maternal in her, and there was she beside each flagging 
one to take a hand or even administer the rebuke which is 
in itself so heartening, — because if you thought you were 
going to be killed in a few minutes by a tiger or a ghost, of 
course you couldn't be cross to your little brother. You 'd 
be going to see God almost the next instant, and you 'd be 
afraid. 
But now, Tony, alone, unsupported by his clan, was out of 
breath and heart. Suddenly he was all baby, and his legs, as 
he called on them, hatefully shortened. His throat hurt him, 
and he was in a rage with Winterbourne, who wouldn't turn 
round and see him, and ask where he was going. Then he 
could answer, as man to man, " Oh, I thought I 'd go over 
to your house," and Winterbourne might, in a kind of rough- 
and-tumble wherein there was no offence to dignity, toss him 
up to his shoulder and carry him the rest of the way. But 
Winterbourne never looked behind. He strode up the path 
to his own door, threw open the screen with one motion, and 
disappeared. Tony also, in due time, went up the path and 
banged at the screen. No one came. He flattened his little 
nose on the wires and looked in. The hall was large and still. 
There were broad stairs. He remembered climbing them that 
other day to see somebody in bed. Then — for Tony was 
clever — he considered that it might be possible to open the 
door another way. So he reached up to the handle and 
pulled it toward him, and once it banged away from him 
and caught the ends of two fingers when it shut. Rising 
 
passion, of his hurt fingers, of his lonely soul, was pent in 
him until he had tugged it open once more and got round 
the edge of it. There he let it go, and it returned upon him, 
shamefully slapping him, and Tony fell upon the floor of the 
great still hall and cried aloud, since his warfare was over, to 
all that had deserted him. 
This Mrs. Ramsay, enisled in peace, heard; it called to her 
and her alone as, it might be, there were no other woman in 
the universe. She whipped out of bed and down the stairs, 
barefooted, and swooped upon the wreck of a dirty little boy 
on the point, if indications were correct, of being deafened by 
his own roars and drowned in his own tears. She snatched 
him up and, hand over his mouth, fled with him to her cham- 
ber. There she set him on the floor, and Tony, red with 
grief and suffocation, could keep silence very well now with- 
out the restraining hand. He had been shocked into dumb- 
ness. He was afraid to cry. Mrs. Ramsay fell upon his tier 
and tore it from him. She skinned him as neatly as a mother 
more used to homely parts. Vain peeling ! he was just as dirty 
underneath. His little bare feet were dusty only. His clothes 
were sights. Not this a child to be taken into bed with a 
clean mother, however instinct yearned for him. But Mrs. 
Ramsay was really a great woman, a captain in emergency. 
She snatched a pillow from the chair and reft its case off. 
. She sat down and lifted Tony to her knee, and there she 
pulled the pillow-case deftly to his shoulder blades. He was 
in a sleeping-bag, frightened to death but still securely there, 
warranted to leave the cleanest sheets inviolate. And then, 
before he could do much more than wonder whether it was 
a nice game and he might laugh, she had slipped into bed with 
him, and he was scientifically cuddled in her arms. 
For an instant Tony thought it was force, and the man 
in him rebelled. Then two lips touched his hot, tear-wet 
 
34i JOHN WINTERBOURNE15 FAMILY 
cheek. That made him consider a moment, and while he 
was reflecting, his tired legs stretched themselves a little in 
their cramping pillow-case, and each of them succumbed to 
a sensation like drawing a long breath. He caught a sobbing 
breath himself, and then another, and when Bess came in, 
in half an hour or so, she found Mrs. Ramsay snuggling a 
sleeping Tony to her breast and watching the door with 
warning eyes. 
" Hush ! " said Mrs. Ramsay. " He 's a tired baby." 
 
XXVII 
WINTERBOURNE was wandering in the early 
evening, as he loved to do. The question of his 
complex family would not down. Back and forth 
in the country road he walked, with a look now and then 
at the stars. He had his favorites among the constellations. 
Orion was the boy, he was wont to say, that kept you spe- 
cial company, he flashed there so steadfastly in that brave 
line of belt and sword. But there was nothing illuminative 
in him to-night. Wintcrbourne thought of Lovell, and 
their broken companionship, and started off toward the 
little house to find him. It had not been by intention that 
their common interests had failed. Events had been too 
fussy and insistent, and come between them. He scarcely 
saw Lovell now, from day's end to day's end. He had a 
confused and scornful feeling that the chap was following 
some girl's petticoat, Celia's, he believed, though Celia was 
so far out of his scheme of things compelling that he could 
hardly conceive of her luring with any direct light. A moment 
he stopped outside Lovell's window and watched the light 
burning steadily there. A peace, the memory of old beloved 
occupations, fell upon him with the unconscious signal of 
the lamp. He knew what Lovell was doing, bending over 
his Greek, laboriously putting it into very good English. 
Lovell had not his own long-continued practice ; he waded 
heavily at times, but when he got to the English transcript 
he was. sometimes winged. Winterbourne opened the door 
and walked in. 
The picture was somewhat as he had conceived. Lovell 
 
sat at the table, forehead upon his hand and the other hand 
stationary, its pencil upon a doubtful point on a sheet of 
drawing-paper. Winterbourne glowed a little at the thought 
that he had come upon the dot. Lovell needed him to clear 
the way. He threw down his hat, set his stick in the corner 
and drew up his chair. 
" Hard at it?" he inquired. 
Lovell had glanced at him at the opening of the door, and 
given him a nod of greeting. 
" I 'm glad you 've come, Winterbourne." He said it ab- 
sently. 
" Ay," returned Winterbourne, in a queer old-fashioned 
way he had sometimes, of speaking out of books. Perhaps 
he remembered, in some secret corner of him, that his mother 
had been Scotch. " What is it, lad ? " 
" It's this confounded chimney." 
"Chimney, lad?" Winterbourne had expected to hear 
some purist's question over readings. 
" Yes, this chimney. The furnace-pipe goes into this flue, 
and of course that cuts us out of a fire in the dining-room. 
Well, you want a fire in the dining-room more than you 
want it in any other room in the house." 
" The dining-room ? " Winterbourne repeated. "Jim, what 
have ye there?" 
Lovell explained, with some impatience. It appeared to 
his submerged mind that anybody would have known why 
he was working on chimneys. 
" The east chimney," he repeated. His hair hung over 
his forehead and clung dankly. He looked harassed and yet 
most happily alert. "At the house." 
" Oh, your big house. Going to let it ? " 
" No, I 'm not going to let it. I 'm going — " He stopped 
there and laughed a little. Celia was not ready, he had 
 
remembered. So far, it was the secret of her maiden diffi- 
dence. 
But Winterbourne had lost even the perfunctory inter- 
est that had prompted him to question. He drew back his 
chair to the cold hearth and stretched out his legs for 
thought. He saw no reason why Lovell should not occupy 
his outer mind with chimneys, the while the inner one con- 
cerned itself with questions that arc of the only real import 
to breathing man. 
" Lovell," said he, " I 've been thinking to-day that the 
things our brains set themselves upon will be swept away. 
When the brain dies, the records we 've been graving on her 
will crumble with her.'' 
" Undoubtedly," said Lovell. But while he said it he was 
making marks. 
Winterbourne, if he had not become entirely absorbed in 
his own thought, would have known he dreamed of chimneys. 
" So what do we want to love our dear pursuits so much 
for ? " he inquired of Lovell and the world of atoms in the 
listening room. " We want to read Greek because it gives 
us the keenest pleasure we've yet known. We want to 
escape the man or woman that keeps us from our book, 
because we love our book. But when our brain dies, the 
memory of our book will be 'dead, too. Won't it ? Or do 
ye think it won't ? Is the brain the tool ? Does it make some- 
thing the soul can keep ? " 
Lovell said nothing, but Winterbourne had ceased to need 
response. He had embarked. 
" So what lives, man ? It 's what 's been kind. It 's what 
has helped some other heart to live. And we do want to 
live." 
"Yes," said Lovell, out of his consideration of a niche for 
a sideboard, " we want to live." 
 
"We want to see other planets. We want to spin across 
the void and find worlds making. Yet I 'm blest if I 'd choose 
to be any nearer the stars than I am now. I don't like my 
coat-tails singed; but that's not it. I want them to be far 
enough away to keep that trumpery jewelled look of being 
put up for us to think they 're there for us, and feed our con- 
ceit on it. But we want to live, Jim. I didn't use to know 
we did. I 've even thought within a year, I could die, grate- 
ful for it all, and be glad of nothingness. But I can't. And 
if I mean to live, I 'm bound to feed the only part of me 
that 's got any show at all. Not my brain, Jim. That 's not 
got a show. Not a sign of it." 
" No," said Lovell,from his housebuilding study. "That 's 
a fact." 
" I don't despise the man that tries to live so he won't 
go to hell," mused Winterbourne. " My old Scotch uncle 
used to say the only body that wasn't afraid of hell was 
the one that hadn't been there. So I think, Jim, my boy, 
if it 's my brain that 's my stumbling-block, if it 's because 
I want to read my book in peace that I 'm tempted to get 
rid of whatever stands in my way, why, then — " and a 
familiar phrase came to him, and he never paused to see 
the grotesqueness of it here — " why, then, I must cut it 
off and cast it from me." 
After that he sat in silence and smoked, and Lovell made 
calculations, and neither had a word more for the other 
until the moment of parting, when Winterbourne, with a 
" Good-night to ye," took his hat and stick and went forth. 
Yet they had had excellent communion in the way of silent 
folk who like the presence of their kind. Lovell breathed 
a little faster for a moment after he had gone, sitting there, 
with pencil poised, weighing his new destiny. He would 
have said there were rhapsodies in him to pour out to Win- 
 
terbourne alone, who knew the sound of the song of life in 
books or from the lips of man. But the poet had " no 
speech nor language." He had gone back into the "glory 
and the dream " where all things are made new, all of them 
inevitable, all taking their orbits with a rush. And the only 
thing he could make articulate even to himself was that he 
must have a clear dining-room flue. 
Winterbourne strode oflF up the road; but when he reached 
his own house, he could not enter. Houses constrained 
him. In the night, outside walls, he felt himself wild and 
glad, and a nature that got no full chance to speak in the 
prescribed intercourse of men, talked freely with unseen 
presences. Winterbourne had always, even through his 
youth and the hard work of his business life, held to that 
sense of the larger quest which poets only keep alive in us. 
He had no defined religion. A creed made him blasphemous 
with the childishness of vain repetition. But the core of 
him was a passionate belief. He knew there was a reality 
that answered to these shows of things, and in the night it 
almost spoke to him. " Thou wilt call and I shall answer 
Thee," his soul said then. He almost heard the call. It 
seemed to be telling him now that there was a thing to do 
touching the muddle he had made of his own life, — not a 
way out of it but a way to answer the call while he stayed 
in it. It said beyond question, the voice, that he could 
never go back to his care-free existence in a slipshod house 
that he hardly saw with his bodily eyes because the Greeks 
were all about him. The house was swept and garnished, 
and old ladies of Clyde were daily filing through it. He 
had his own sufficient solitude; but that was not it. The 
atmosphere of calm outside him had been invaded. Before 
he had felt the stillness and forgetfiilness of his kind to ex- 
tend through the town — because, as soon as the event of 
 
his homecoming was over Clyde had ceased to think of 
him — to the sea it extended, and the confines of the world. 
And now he was in it again, life as busy as a hive, and 
Catherine looked to him as her own special god, and he 
was really the special god of Bess, he knew, and bound to 
save her before her youth and bloom were gone. 
He walked on over the bridge, pausing there as one 
always has to at dark water for a searching of its mystery, — 
for by night the shallowest of it may be any depth and rich 
in glints of stars, — and then on to Hunter's where, late 
though it was, there was a light in the barn as there had 
been on the night Bess went there, and Hunter, the color 
in his face, was at work like a young artisan who has his 
bread to win. He looked up as Winterbourne's foot struck 
the bam run, and threw down his tool. More red ran 
into his skin and he started forward. Did he think because 
she had come there once that she would come again i But 
Winterbourne's bulk approached, and Dwight took up his 
tool. 
" Oh, it 's you," he said, in man's tone to man. Who 
could say, while he worked, what graces had been circling 
round him, calling him to take hands for the lovely dance 
of life? 
" What are you doing ? " Winterbourne queried. " What 
do you do it for ? " 
It seemed to him that Dwight, being jfrce, might sit at 
this moment at a table with a book. 
" It 's the prettiest bit of inlaying I 've come across," said 
Dwight. He held his lamp to the curving edge. "Aside- 
board, don't you see ? 1 1 's going between the two windows." 
"Where?" asked Winterbourne, to show a decent in- 
terest. 
" Why, in the dining-room, man, of course." He fell to 
 
work again, and Winterbournc, with a sense that he had 
been hearing about dining-rooms before that night, stood 
still and watched him. Suddenly Dwight came upright, tool 
in hand, and looked at him heatedly. " Can't you do any- 
thing to keep her from killing herself?" he inquired. 
Winterbourne stared at him in good faith. 
"What do you go round adopting girls for," Dwight 
continued bitterly, as if to lash him into a decent sense of 
responsibility, " if you 're not going to take care of 'em 
after you 've got 'em ? " 
"Do you mean Bess?" Winterbourne inquired humbly. 
The context made it evident he could not mean Celia. 
" I do. I mean Bess." 
" I agree with you. She 's being killed." 
" Then why don't you prevent it, man ? Why don't you 
prevent it?" 
The sick passion of the tone roused Winterbournc. 
"You like her, boy? " he said kindly. 
" Like her ! " The misery of his voice and look told how 
wholly he had succumbed to the delirium of it. 
Winterbourne straightened. 
" Then I'll tell you," he said, " you can't have her." 
"Can't have her?" 
"No. She's too damned precious." 
"Forme?" 
" For any man in this world gone wrong, where nature 
drives us mad and we long for a woman and we make her 
love us and we tire of her." 
" You think I'll tire of her ? " 
" You 're a man. You 're like the rest of us." 
The smile on Hunter's lips told that he, at least, was not 
like the rest ; but he put it differently. 
" She's not like the rest." 
 
" No, she 's not. She's fit for heroes." 
Dwight stood staring straight in front of him, a rapt look 
on his face. He was no hero. He was doing over furniture. 
But he felt himself the size of heroes. He recalled himself 
to Winterboume. 
" So you 're not with me," he said briefly. 
" You must do as you will," said Winterbourne. " She 's 
not my child, though you say I 'vc adopted her." 
" She adores you." This came bitterly. 
Winterbourne lifted his head an inch, and his lips smiled. 
" Thank God ! " he said. " I haven't missed everything." 
He turned and walked away out of the barn, but in a 
moment he was back. Dwight stood as he had left him. 
" Dwight," he said, "we're not in our right minds. It's 
come over us too suddenly. Get her if you can. But be good 
to her. Don't stop loving her. My God ! why have we got 
to stop loving them, and why can't they stop loving us ? I 
tell you what it is, Dwight, don't give up reading the poets. 
There. Good-night. Get her if you can." 
When he was home again, he halted under his wife's win- 
dow, and saw Bess moving back and forth against it, and 
asked himself how it would seem to be young again and the 
lover of a girl. He knew well how it would seem. But he 
took off his hat and stood there a moment, and the passion 
in him was a prayer that she might find the passion of love 
enduring. 
 
XXVIII 
IT was next morning that Winterbourne and Bess stood 
talking for a moment in the garden by the gate. She 
was looking for Tonty, due to make her daily call, and 
telling him about the ravishment of Tony and his pillow- 
slip eclipse, and how Mrs. Ramsay, when the time came for 
the awakening and the man-child roaring for his supper, 
would hardly be parted from him. 
" Then she 's a human woman," said Winterbourne grudg- 
ingly. He never saw Mrs. Ramsay as a normal being. "She 
has a passion for her young." 
" It will do her good, I guess," Bess sagely told him. 
" She seemed worried because he was so dirty. I told her 
nothing could be done with so little help at home." 
Dwight Hunter came in sight now, on his big team, driv- 
ing slowly because he had birch-wood for a perennial lady 
."down the road." Bess ran out and waited for him, and 
Dwight stopped, took off his cap and jumped down to speak, 
all a rapt listening, if perhaps he could in some way serve her. 
It seemed to him he had made a step or two toward her 
favor, since the day she struck him in the shed-chamber ; 
but that he now humbly knew, although it was not conven- 
tional, he had won for himself by his savage haste. 
" Remember," she said, " it 's the club to-night. The 
boys." 
" Oh, yes," he told her fervently, "Til be there." 
" I shan't go to-night," said Bess. "You needn't tell them 
so, but I may not go any more. You can teach them things, 
and I can't do anything but sing with 'em." 
 
He stared at her, aghast. Was this the end of his diplo- 
macy ? 
"Why, they won't sing for me," he argued. Dwight al- 
most felt there were tears in his voice. " They won't even 
stay the evening out. You 've got to go." 
" Oh, yes, they'll stay," Bess assured him, out of her sage 
calm. " They won't dare not to. Their fathers work for you. 
I 'm too busy. I 'm awfully glad to have you take it off my 
hands." 
She gave him a little kindly smile and left him. The 
smile told him she was perfectly certain of his moving in- 
terest in boys with singing voices, and he tried feebly to 
respond. But he stepped sorrowfully on his load again and 
drove away. What, he wondered, had Winterbourne to do 
with it? 
" That," said Winterbourne to her as she came back, " is 
the King of Clyde." She looked at him for the reason. " He's 
the only live man here. All the other live men go into the 
city to earn money. They take their brains out of Clyde. 
The deader it is, the better they like it ; it 's quieter to come 
back to." 
"Why doesn't he go?" Bess inquired. It seemed as if 
she thought it better that he should. 
" I 'm going to tell you, Bess. Three years ago when I 
came back here, he asked my advice. He was a good deal 
with Lovell, and I fell in with Lovell because of the Greek. 
He asked my advice because I was older. You know, kid, 
your daddy 's very old." 
" You 're not," she denied, with indignation. " You 're 
just like any of us." 
" Oh, no, I 'm not. My name is Tithonus. Any grass- 
hopper'll tell you. Well, Hunter's father had died. He was 
a rich man, a contractor, a man in politics in the city. They 
 
kept this for a summer place. Dwight was expected to go 
in with his father. He 'd been with him a year or so, and he 'd 
found out how his father's contracts were got, how he 'd 
played into the hands of the politicians and they 'd played 
into his. Well, at first Dwight couldn't do anything about 
it but look into it. His father was a sick man. Then he died, 
and the boy found he was at a good deal of a disadvantage. 
He couldn't well carry on business at the old stand without 
playing the old game. The firm was pretty well known. 
And the other sort knew it, too, the ones that wanted to play 
fair. So he elected to throw up the job there, and build up 
something in Clyde." 
" Yes," said she, " of course he 'd have to." 
Winterbourne rather expected to hear Dwight acclaimed a 
hero, but an indication of bare honesty was evidently no 
more than she expected of every man. 
"But he'd better go into the city," she said reprovingly, 
as if Winterbourne had made him an exile. " Not stay in 
his barn every night doing over old furniture." 
" Don't you like to have him do over furniture ? " he in- 
quired meekly. He felt as if she were the mother of men, 
with the secrets of life in her apron-pocket. 
" Men that have got to live in the world can't put aside 
seeing folks," she answered briefly. " He'd better hunt up 
the young men he was in college with, or folks as good as 
he is. If he just sees the men here that are doing day's 
works, he'll get to think that 's all there is." 
" All there is, sapient one ? " 
Bess had a suspicion that he was laughing at her, but she 
never cared, when it was he. 
" He'll get to think he knows it all," she explained. 
" He 's pretty young." 
" He 's older than you are, ninnyhammer, a good two 
 
years,' She ignored that even by an eyebeam, with an impli- 
cation that this was beside the question. " How about your 
consorting with Lyddy and me and doing housework? " he 
pursued. " How about your deteriorating, Missy ? Bess, I 'm 
going to tell you something. Your only salvation is to go 
away from here, and I 'm going to send you. Your daddy 's 
going to send you." 
She looked at him in a questioning apprehension. 
" Oh, no, sir," she said. " I just couldn't go." 
"Why couldn't you?" 
" I couldn't go away from you." 
It was the most innocent avowal, and the clarity of it 
brought tears to his eyes. 
" Imbecile ! " he threw at her. " Kids have to leave their 
fathers. They have to go away and learn to sing and rest 
their backs and use good English, too, — you say some 
frightful things, blockhead." 
She was watching him with an anxious wistfulness. 
" I think I get along with my Italian. Don't you think 
so?" she inquired. For she had incredibly found a half-hour 
here, an hour there, and though she was often sleepy from 
her tasks, she did absorb amazingly. 
" What good is your Italian going to do you, young sport, 
if you don't go anywhere to show it off? Of course I 'd rather 
you'd be here. I 'd rather you'd settle in a house in Clyde, 
where I could go in of an evening and rest my old bones. 
But if you don't marry somebody in Clyde, off you go." 
Bess laughed. She knew the tempestuous indignations of 
him, the outcry that meant very little wool indeed. She went 
off down the road to meet Tonty, who had been signalled, and 
Winterbourne strode back through the kitchen for a morn- 
ing call he meant to make his wife. In the kitchen Lyddy 
took her hands out of the dish-pan and hailed him. 
 
" You sit down here a minute," she said, with the curtness 
which clothed fealty, " an' see if you can tell me what this 
is. I can't find my other spe'tacles." 
She had no glasses but the ones that glittered now upon 
her. This Winterbourne knew, but he fancied Lyddy had 
long ago given up the accomplishment known as reading 
handwriting as one of the graces so little to be needed in 
another state of existence that it might as well be dropped 
now. She handed him from her deepest pocket a wayworn 
letter, and he opened it and read. It was from the previously 
hostile Ann, and abounded, short as it was, in professions of 
piety. Its purport was that, having religion herself, she wanted 
Lyddy to know it and to be assured that they were to meet 
in the harbor of heaven. And she was sorry for what was 
past and gone, and would Lyddy tell Mr. Winterbourne 
how much she thanked him for mother's ear-trumpet that 
she gave to the young lady in the kitchen. 
" Of all the sassy jades ! " Lyddy commented sufficiently. 
" Meet me above ! well, I guess when we meet, 't will be 
somewheres else. All she means is, she 's afraid I'll remem- 
ber I own half that house, an' she thinks I'll move in. 
Mebbe I will, to spite her." 
Winterbourne went on to make his wife the morning call, 
but in the sitting-room, face to face, he met her. Catherine 
had on a pretty floating dress. She was pale, and her eyes 
sought his apprehensively, as if, though wonder was in her 
as to the amount she could do, she was determined to show 
her will. For an instant Winterbourne forgot she was an in- 
valid unlawfully out of bed. 
"Hallo," said he. "I was going up to see you." 
" I thought I 'd come down and ask whether we couldn't 
have a little walk," she said. 
" And come home as we did the other day, pick-a-back ? 
 
No, Cat. I don't take you far from home until you 're on 
your pins again. But you can get as far as the garden, can't 
you ? There 's the arbor." 
He gave her his arm, and she went with him through the 
kitchen, where Lyddy would not look at her, but sniffed 
brazenly when she was bidden good-morning, though she 
immediately conceded a reply on Winterbourne's ominous 
pause. In the arbor, lying in a long chair with the grape- 
leaves shading her, Catherine was glad within that she had 
not been forced to go farther for his company. 
" Kitty," said Winterbourne, " do you think you 're able 
to talk a little business I " 
She would undertake anything, her grateful glance told 
him, so he would call her by some small name. 
" When you said you 'd lost money," he ventured, watch- 
ing her to see how she might receive it, "did you mean what 
you said exactly ? Was it all you had ? " 
Her eyes widened in their look of terror. 
" O John," she said, " it was all I had. And Celia needs 
things now, and so do I." 
"Ah !" He said it meditatively, and seemed to retire be- 
hind his beard. Then he remembered she was ill, and war- 
ranted to faint at any point, and smiled at her. "Well, well," 
he qualified, " we must do the best we can." 
Celia at that moment appeared in the doorway, and Tim 
Ramsay's golden head rose over her shoulder. They, too, 
were bound for the arbor, but seeing it occupied, Celia smiled, 
and with a hand-wave turned back into the house. She was 
pale. Her eyes had shadows under them. At that moment 
she was no longer girl, but woman. 
" What does she want with that yellow-headed loon ? " 
Winterbourne said, frowning. " I 'd dress him in petticoats 
and give him a seam to sew. If he's going to be a man, he 'd 
 
better be put into Dwight Hunter's gang and work on the 
road." 
The side door swung behind them, as he spoke, and Tim 
and Celia took the path through the lane to the Valley of 
Birds. 
" Don't you like him ? " Catherine was asking. " Don't 
you think he 's nice for the girls to be with ? " 
" Nice ! Sugar and cream, that 's all he is. But Celia won't 
mind. She'll say he 's dear and lovely, if you ask her. I 
dare say she thinks so, too. She 's garbled her adjectives so 
long she can't tell what they mean." 
"John," said his wife> "I don't think you like Celia." 
" I don't know her. I don't know the real Celia. I don't 
believe Celia does." 
He was talking to her with plain honesty, for he had con- 
cluded that if he and Catherine were to join their fortunes, 
as the upper gods seemed to indicate, it must be as business 
partners, on the square. This was prudential, too. He could 
coddle her while she was sick. In a time of her need, he 
could play a game with her, but heart and flesh would fail 
him if he were to continue it. 
" Celia 's got an idea it 's attractive to find everything 
darling and dear and sweet. It 's all her damned vanity. 
She wants to be the princess that had jewels drop out of 
her mouth. Well, she 's earned her own punishment, and 
she never knows now whether she likes or hates. She talks 
a jargon of affection. Maybe she feels it, but more likely it 
poisons her. Reaction, Catherine, that's what it is. What we 
call punishments are reactions. She 's littered her standards 
up, and I don't believe she can pick out evil from good." 
Catherine was enormously taken with this. It was the 
kind of talk she had always hoped he would respect her 
enough to share with her. 
 
"I don't know what you mean by her vanity," she ven- 
tured, wishing she might sound as intellectual to him as he 
did to hen '' Celia doesn't seem to me vain." 
" That 's it. She 's too vain to appear vain. She 's got a 
theory of the way she ought to act, and she 's going to act 
just that way if the bottom drops out. If I could hear Celia 
swear once — " 
"John!" 
"If she said to me just once, ' You 're a doddering old 
fool, and your beard 's untidy, and I hate you,' I could say, 
' Good for you, Celia. You 're half worthy to be your sister's 
sister.' " 
"You don't call Bess vain." There was the old haunting 
note of jealousy. 
" Bess I don't you talk about Bess. She 's your nurse, 
and she 's broken her back for you. And she 's my wife's 
nurse and broken her back for the whole of us. No, we 
can't talk about Bess." 
It was safer, even she saw, to talk about Celia. 
" Don't you find Celia cheerful ? " she inquired. 
" No, not what I call cheerful. I don't call a perfunctory 
twitter cheerful. By the Lord, Kit, that 's why I don't like 
her. She 's nonsense of humor." 
"Has Bess?" Again the tone he chafed under. "She 
doesn't laugh much, either." 
" No, Bess doesn't laugh much. Maybe she hasn't 
time." He thought a minute, with a sudden vision of her as 
he saw her a week ago, standing under an apple tree in a 
gleeful transport while Hunter from above passed her down 
Tony, who had got stranded there. " Yes, I guess Bess would 
laugh more if she had time. She couldn't be on the terms 
she is with the old earth and not see her ironies. But I can tell 
you why Celia can't laugh. She 's so busy scheming out what 
 
it 's pretty to think and feel, she wouldn't dare take off her 
hat to an irony. It might not be the irony other folks took 
off theirs to." 
" John," his wife whispered it in her caution, " do you 
ever see any sign of her saying — what isn't so ? " 
" No, Kit, no." He shook his head decisively. He was 
not going to be found in that form of espial. Involuntary 
ones were enough. " I don't have many words with her." 
But all the time, while his tongue was continuing this 
rather acrid chattering, he was thinking of the money she 
had lost and the money he hadn't earned, and wondering 
what they were to live on. There was plenty for the pre- 
sent. His part of the property was intact, but he knew 
something about his wife's exquisite needs as they used to 
be, and he had no hope that a sumptuous Celia's could be 
less. And Bess, in spite of herself, was to have the riches of 
the world : travel, lessons, leisure to fold her dear plump 
hands and listen to the love-making a prince was probably 
conning now, in a palace garden, till she should come. 
Lyddy stepped to the door and tossed out a bee she had 
captured in a towel. Lyddy was queer : she would scarify 
human creatures, but she could never let a dumb thing suffer 
hurt. The sight of her was like a call to Wintcrbourne, like 
a key to complete a circuit with his brain. He jumped, and 
Catherine jumped with him. 
"By Jove!" said he, "my pan-pipes." 
"What is it, John?" 
He laughed in pleasure at his cleverness. 
" Don't you fret, old lady. I'll patent pan-pipes. There's 
nothing like them. It's a simple job." 
He sat there uneasily for ten minutes or so, and she could 
not keep him. Impatience was upon him to find his pan- 
pipes and be gone, perhaps to Lovell to ask him if the idea 
 
were really feasible, since Lovell had told him he was a fool 
not to do it ; perhaps to take the thing apart and see if some 
more cunning channel could be devised. Catherine had lost 
his attention, and she grew straightway tired. When she rose, 
he got instantly on his feet. 
" Going in ? " said he. " Come on, then. I 've got to find 
something in there." 
Celia on the way down through the lane looked at Tim 
casually. He was moody, and he had no talk to proffer. 
Even his answers had. a sulky tinge. 
"How is it?" asked Celia. 
"What?" 
" How are the pan-pipes ? " 
" Blast the pan-pipes ! " 
Celia looked at him in delicate reproof. Yet her eyes were 
curious. 
" Things aren't going well ? " she guessed. 
"Things would go well if old Gregory would do as I 
asked him. What 's a man want to go into a thing for and 
then light out and say no more about it ? " 
" Gregory ? " 
" Yes. I 've been up to town twice to find him, and they 
say he hasn't been to the office more than half an hour a day 
for a month." 
"What docs your father say?" 
" Dad ? He 's so surprised he acts as if he was drunk. 
He 's taking charge and Gregory 's raised his salary." 
"Why don't you write ? " 
"Can't. Dad opens the letters." 
" Oh, but you should tell your father." 
" Not much ! He 'd give the whole thing away to Winter- 
