picture.”
“What you’ve set your hearts on, in other words, is working straight
against me?”
But she persisted without heat. “What we’ve set our hearts on is working
for England.”
“And pray who in the world’s ‘England,’” he cried in his stupefaction,
“unless I am?”
“Dear, dear father,” she pleaded, “that’s all we want you to be! I
mean”--she didn’t fear firmly to force it home--“in the real, the right,
the grand sense; the sense that, you see, is so intensely ours.”
“‘Ours’?”--he couldn’t but again throw back her word at her. “Isn’t it,
damn you, just in ours--?”
“No, no,” she interrupted--“not in ours!” She smiled at him still,
though it was strained, as if he really ought to perceive.
But he glared as at a senseless juggle. “What and who the devil are you
talking about? What are ‘we,’ the whole blest lot of us, pray, but
the best and most English thing in the country: people walking--and
riding!--straight; doing, disinterestedly, most of the difficult and all
the thankless jobs; minding their own business, above all, and expecting
others to mind theirs?” So he let her “have” the stout sound truth, as
it were--and so the direct force of it clearly might, by his view, have
made her reel. “You and I, my lady, and your two decent brothers, God be
thanked for them, and mine into the bargain, and all the rest, the jolly
lot of us, take us together--make us numerous enough without any foreign
aid or mixture: if that’s what I understand you to mean!”
“You don’t understand me at all--evidently; and above all I see you
don’t want to!” she had the bravery to add, “By ‘our’ sense of what’s
due to the nation in such a case I mean Mr. Crimble’s and mine--and
nobody’s else at all; since, as I tell you, it’s only with him I’ve
talked.”
It gave him then, every inch of him showed, the full, the grotesque
measure of the scandal he faced. “So that ‘you and Mr. Crimble’
represent the standard, for me, in your opinion, of the proprieties and
duties of our house?”
Well, she was too earnest--as she clearly wished to let him see--to mind
his perversion of it. “I express to you the way we feel.”
“It’s most striking to hear, certainly, what you express”--he
had positively to laugh for it; “and you speak of him, with your
insufferable ‘we,’ as if you were presenting him as your--God knows
what! You’ve enjoyed a large exchange of ideas, I gather, to have
arrived at such unanimity.” And then, as if to fall into no trap he
might somehow be laying for her, she dropped all eagerness and rebutted
nothing: “You must see a great deal of your fellow-critic not to be able
to speak of yourself without him!”
“Yes, we’re fellow-critics, father”--she accepted this opening. “I
perfectly adopt your term.” But it took her a minute to go further. “I
saw Mr. Crim-ble here half an hour ago.”
“Saw him ‘here’?” Lord Theign amazedly asked. “He comes to you
here--and Amy Sandgate has been silent?”
“It wasn’t her business to tell you--since, you see, she could leave it
to me. And I quite expect,” Lady Grace then produced, “that he’ll come
again.”
It brought down with a bang all her father’s authority. “Then I simply
exact of you that you don’t see him.”
The pause of which she paid it the deference was charged like a brimming
cup. “Is that what you really meant by your condition just now--that
when I do see him I shall not speak to him?”
“What I ‘really meant’ is what I really mean--that you bow to the law I
lay upon you and drop the man altogether.”
“Have nothing to do with him at all?”
“Have nothing to do with him at all.”
“In fact”--she took it in--“give him wholly up.”
He had an impatient gesture. “You sound as if I asked you to give up
a fortune!” And then, though she had phrased his idea without
consternation--verily as if it had been in the balance for her--he
might have been moved by something that gathered in her eyes. “You’re
so wrapped up in him that the precious sacrifice is like that sort of
thing?”
Lady Grace took her time--but showed, as her eyes continued to hold him,
what had gathered. “I like Mr. Crimble exceedingly, father--I think
him clever, intelligent, good; I want what he wants--I want it, I think,
really, as much; and I don’t at all deny that he has helped to make me
so want it. But that doesn’t matter. I’ll wholly cease to see him, I’ll
give him up forever, if--if--!” She faltered, however, she hung fire
with a smile that anxiously, intensely appealed. Then she began
and stopped again, “If--if--!” while her father caught her up with
irritation.
“‘If,’ my lady? If what, please?”
“If you’ll withdraw the offer of our picture to Mr. Bender--and never
make another to any one else!”
He stood staring as at the size of it--then translated it into his own
terms. “If I’ll obligingly announce to the world that I’ve made an ass
of myself you’ll kindly forbear from your united effort--the charming
pair of you--to show me up for one?”
Lady Grace, as if consciously not caring or attempting to answer this,
simply gave the first flare of his criticism time to drop. It wasn’t
till a minute passed that she said: “You don’t agree to my compromise?”
Ah, the question but fatally sharpened at a stroke the stiffness of his
spirit. “Good God, I’m to ‘compromise’ on top of everything?--I’m to
let you browbeat me, haggle and bargain with me, over a thing that I’m
entitled to settle with you as things have ever been settled among us,
by uttering to you my last parental word?”
“You don’t care enough then for what you name?”--she took it up as
scarce heeding now what he said.
“For putting an end to your odious commerce--? I give you the measure,
on the contrary,” said Lord Theign, “of how much I care: as you give me,
very strangely indeed, it strikes me, that of what it costs you--!” But
his other words were lost in the hard long look at her from which he
broke off in turn as for disgust.
It was with an effect of decently shielding herself--the unuttered
meaning came so straight--that she substituted words of her own. “Of
what it costs me to redeem the picture?”
“To lose your tenth-rate friend”--he spoke without scruple now.
She instantly broke into ardent deprecation, pleading at once and
warning. “Father, father, oh--! You hold the thing in your hands.”
He pulled up before her again as to thrust the responsibility straight
back. “My orders then are so much rubbish to you?”
Lady Grace held her ground, and they remained face to face in opposition
and accusation, neither making the other the sign of peace. But the girl
at least had, in her way, held out the olive-branch, while Lord Theign
had but reaffirmed his will. It was for her acceptance of this that he
searched her, her last word not having yet come. Before it had done so,
however, the door from the lobby opened and Mr. Gotch had regained
their presence. This appeared to determine in Lady Grace a view of the
importance of delay, which she signified to her companion in a “Well--I
must think!” For the butler positively resounded, and Hugh was there.
“Mr. Crimble!” Mr. Gotch proclaimed--with the further extravagance of
projecting the visitor straight upon his lordship.
VII
Our young man showed another face than the face his friend had lately
seen him carry off, and he now turned it distressfully from that source
of inspiration to Lord Theign, who was flagrantly, even from this first
moment, no such source at all, and then from his noble adversary back
again, under pressure of difficulty and effort, to Lady Grace, whom he
directly addressed. “Here I am again, you see--and I’ve got my news,
worse luck!” But his manner to her father was the next instant more
brisk. “I learned you were here, my lord; but as the case is important I
told them it was all right and came up. I’ve been to my club,” he
added for the girl, “and found the tiresome thing--!” But he broke down
breathless.
“And it isn’t good?” she cried with the highest concern.
Ruefully, yet not abjectly, he confessed, “Not so good as I hoped. For I
assure you, my lord, I counted--”
“It’s the report from Pappendick about the picture at Verona,” Lady
Grace interruptingly explained.
Hugh took it up, but, as we should well have seen, under embarrassment
dismally deeper; the ugly particular defeat he had to announce showing
thus, in his thought, for a more awkward force than any reviving
possibilities that he might have begun to balance against them. “The man
I told you about also,” he said to his formidable patron; “whom I
went to Brussels to talk with and who, most kindly, has gone for us to
Verona. He has been able to get straight at their Mantovano, but the
brute horribly wires me that he doesn’t quite see the thing; see, I
mean”--and he gathered his two hearers together now in his overflow
of chagrin, conscious, with his break of the ice, more exclusively of
that--“my vivid vital point, the absolute screaming identity of the two
persons represented. I still hold,” he persuasively went on, “that
our man is their man, but Pappendick decides that he isn’t--and as
Pappendick has so much to be reckoned with of course I’m awfully
abashed.”
Lord Theign had remained what he had begun by being, immeasurably and
inaccessibly detached--only with his curiosity more moved than he
could help and as, on second thought, to see what sort of a still more
offensive fool the heated youth would really make of himself. “Yes--you
seem indeed remarkably abashed!”
Hugh clearly was thrown again, by the cold “cut” of this, colder than
any mere social ignoring, upon a sense of the damnably poor figure he
did offer; so that, while he straightened himself and kept a mastery of
his manner and a control of his reply, we should yet have felt his cheek
tingle. “I backed my own judgment strongly, I know--and I’ve got my
snub. But I don’t in the least knock under.”
“Only the first authority in Europe doesn’t care, I suppose, whether you
do or not!”
“He isn’t the first authority in Europe, thank God,” the young man
returned--“though he is, I admit, one of the three or four first. And
I mean to appeal--I’ve another shot in my locker,” he went on with his
rather painfully forced smile to Lady Grace. “I had already written, you
see, to dear old Bardi.”
“Bardi of Milan?”--she recognised, it was admirably manifest, the appeal
of his directness to her generosity, awkward as their predicament was
also for her herself, and spoke to him as she might have spoken without
her father’s presence.
It would have shown for beautiful, on the spot, had there been any one
to perceive it, that he devoutly recorded her intelligence. “You know of
him?--how delightful of you! For the Italians, I now feel,” he quickly
explained, “he must have most the instinct--and it has come over me
since that he’d have been more our man. Besides of course his so knowing
the Verona picture.”
She had fairly hung on his lips. “But does he know ours?”
“No--not ours yet. That is”--he consciously and quickly took himself
up--“not yours! But as Pap-pendick went to Verona for us I’ve asked
Bardi to do us the great favour to come here--if Lord Theign will be so
good,” he said, bethinking himself with a turn, “as to let him examine
the Moretto.” He faced again to the personage he mentioned, who,
simply standing off and watching, in concentrated interest as well as
detachment, this interview of his cool daughter and her still cooler
guest, had plainly “elected,” as it were, to give them rope to hang
themselves. Staring very hard at Hugh he met his appeal, but in a
silence clearly calculated; against which, however, the young man,
bearing up, made such head as he could. He offered his next word, that
is, equally to the two companions. “It’s not at all impossible--for such
curious effects have been!--that the Dedborough picture seen after
the Verona will point a different moral from the Verona seen after the
Dedborough.”
“And so awfully long after--wasn’t it?” Lady Grace asked.
“Awfully long after--it was years ago that Pappen-dick, being in this
country for such purposes, was kindly admitted to your house when none
of you were there, or at least visible.”
“Oh of course we don’t see every one!”--she heroically kept it up.
“You don’t see every one,” Hugh bravely laughed, “and that makes it all
the more charming that you did, and that you still do, see me. I shall
really get Bardi,” he pursued, “to go again to Verona----”
“The last thing before coming here?”--she had guessed before he could
say it; and still she sustained it, so that he could shine at her for
assent. “How happy they should like so to work for you!”
“Ah, we’re a band of brothers,” he returned--“‘we few, we happy
few’--from country to country”; to which he added, gaining more ease for
an eye at Lord Theign: “though we do have our little rubs and disputes,
like Pappendick and me now. The thing, you see, is the ripping
interest of it all; since,” he developed and explained, for his elder
friend’s benefit, with pertinacious cheer and an assurance superficially
at least recovered, “when we’re really ‘hit’ over a case we’ll do almost
anything in life.”
Lady Grace, recklessly throbbing in the breath of it all, immediately
appropriated what her father let alone. “It must be so lovely to feel
so hit!”
“It does spoil one,” Hugh laughed, “for milder joys. Of course what I
have to consider is the chance--putting it at the merest chance--of
Bardi’s own wet blanket! But that’s again so very small--though,” he
pulled up with a drop to the comparative dismal, which he offered as an
almost familiar tribute to Lord Theign, “you’ll retort upon me naturally
that I promised you the possibility of Pappendick’s veto would be: all
on the poor dear old basis, you’ll claim, of the wish father to the
thought. Well, I do wish to be right as much as I believe I am. Only
give me time!” he sublimely insisted.
“How can we prevent your using it?” Lady Grace again interrupted; “or
the fact either that if the worst comes to the worst--”
“The thing”--he at once pursued--“will always be at the least the
greatest of Morettos? Ah,” he cried so cheerily that there was still a
freedom in it toward any it might concern, “the worst sha’n’t come to
the worst, but the best to the best: my conviction of which it is that
supports me in the deep regret I have to express”--and he faced Lord
Theign again--“for any inconvenience I may have caused you by my
abortive undertaking. That, I vow here before Lady Grace, I will yet
more than make up!”
Lord Theign, after the longest but the blankest contemplation of
him, broke hereupon, for the first time, that attitude of completely
sustained and separate silence which he had yet made compatible with his
air of having deeply noted every element of the scene--so that it was of
this full view his participation had effectively consisted, “I haven’t
the least idea, sir, what you’re talking about!” And he squarely turned
his back, strolling toward the other room, the threshold of which he the
next moment had passed, remaining scantily within, however, and in
sight of the others, not to say of ourselves; even though averted and
ostensibly lost in some scrutiny that might have had for its object the
great enshrined Lawrence.
There ensued upon his words and movement a vivid mute passage, the
richest of commentaries, between his companions; who, deeply divided by
the width of the ample room, followed him with their eyes and then used
for their own interchange these organs of remark, eloquent now over
Hugh’s unmistakable dismissal at short order, on which obviously he must
at once act. Lady Grace’s young arms conveyed to him by a despairing
contrite motion of surrender that she had done for him all she could do
in his presence and that, however sharply doubtful the result, he was to
leave the rest to herself. They communicated thus, the strenuous pair,
for their full moment, without speaking; only with the prolonged,
the charged give and take of their gaze and, it might well have
been imagined, of their passion. Hugh had for an instant a show of
hesitation--of the arrested impulse, while he kept her father within
range, to launch at that personage before going some final remonstrance.
It was the girl’s raised hand and gesture of warning that waved away
for him such a mistake; he decided, under her pressure, and after a last
searching and answering look at her reached the door and let himself
out. The stillness was then prolonged a minute by the further wait of
the two others, Lord Theign where he had been standing and his daughter
on the spot from which she had not moved. It presently ended in his
lordship’s turn about as if inferring by the silence that the intruder
had withdrawn.
“Is that young man your lover?” he said as he drew again near.
Lady Grace waited a little, but spoke as quietly as if she had been
prepared. “Has the question a bearing on the promise you a short time
ago demanded of me?”
“It has a bearing on the so extraordinary appearance of your intimacy
with him!”
“You mean that if he should be--what you ask me about--your exaction
would then be modified?”
“My request that you break it short off? That request would, on the
contrary,” Lord Theign pronounced, “rest on an immense new ground.
Therefore I insist on your telling me the truth.”
“Won’t the truth be before you, father, if you’ll think a
moment--without extravagance?” After which, while, as stiffly as
ever--and it probably seemed to her impatience as stupidly--he didn’t
rise to it, she went on: “If I offered you not again to see him, does
that make for you the appearance--?”
“If you offered it, you mean, on your condition--my promising not to
sell? I promised,” said Lord Theign, “absolutely nothing at all!”
She took him up with all expression. “So I promised as little! But
that I should have been able to say what I did sufficiently meets your
curiosity.”
She might, wronged as she held herself, have felt him stupid not to see
how wronged; but he was in any case acute for an evasion. “You risked
your offer for the great equivalent over which you’ve so wildly worked
yourself up.”
“Yes, I’ve worked myself--that, I grant you and don’t blush for! But
hardly so much as to renounce my ‘lover’--if,” she prodigiously smiled,
“I were so fortunate as to have one!”
“You renounced poor John mightily easily--whom you were so fortunate as
to have!”
Her brows rose as high as his own had ever done. “Do you call Lord John
my lover?”
“He was your suitor most assuredly,” Lord Theign inimitably said,
though without looking at her; “and as strikingly encouraged as he was
respectfully ardent!”
“Encouraged by you, dear father, beyond doubt!”
“Encouraged--er--by every one: because you were (yes, you were!)
encouraging. And what I ask of you now is a word of common candour as
to whether you didn’t, on your honour, turn him off because of your just
then so stimulated views on the person who has been with us.”
Grace replied but after an instant, as moved by more things than she
could say--moved above all, in her trouble and her pity for him, by
other things than harshness: “Oh father, father, father----!”
He searched her through all the compassion of her cry, but appeared to
give way to her sincerity. “Well then if I have your denial I take
it as answering my whole question--in a manner that satisfies me. If
there’s nothing, on your word, of that sort between you, you can all the
more drop him.”
“But you said a moment ago that I should all the more in the other
case--that of there being something!”
He brushed away her logic-chopping. “If you’re so keen then for past
remarks I take up your own words--I accept your own terms for your
putting an end to Mr. Crimble.” To which, while, turning pale, she said
nothing, he added: “You recognise that you profess yourself ready----”
“Not again to see him,” she now answered, “if you tell me the picture’s
safe? Yes, I recognise that I was ready--as well as how scornfully
little you then were!”
“Never mind what I then was--the question’s of what I actually am, since
I close with you on it The picture’s therefore as safe as you please,”
 Lord Theign pursued, “if you’ll do what you just now engaged to.”
“I engaged to do nothing,” she replied after a pause; and the face she
turned to him had grown suddenly tragic. “I’ve no word to take back, for
none passed between us; but I won’t do what I mentioned and what you
at once laughed at Because,” she finished, “the case is different.”
“Different?” he almost shouted--“how, different?”
She didn’t look at him for it, but she was none the less strongly
distinct “He has been here--and that has done it He knows,” she
admirably emphasised.
“Knows what I think of him, no doubt--for a brazen young prevaricator!
But what else?”
She still kept her eyes on a far-off point. “What he will have
seen--that I feel we’re too good friends.”
“Then your denial of it’s false,” her father fairly thundered--“and you
are infatuated?”
It made her the more quiet. “I like him very much.”
“So that your row about the picture,” he demanded with passion, “has
been all a blind?” And then as her quietness still held her: “And his a
blind as much--to help him to get at you?”
She looked at him again now. “He must speak for himself. I’ve said what
I mean.”
“But what the devil do you mean?” Lord Theign, taking in the hour, had
reached the door as in supremely baffled conclusion and with a sense of
time lamentably lost.
Their eyes met upon it all dreadfully across the wide space, and,
hurried and incommoded as she saw him, she yet made him still stand a
minute. Then she let everything go. “Do what you like with the picture!”
He jerked up his arm and guarding hand as before a levelled blow at his
face, and with the other hand flung open the door, having done with her
now and immediately lost to sight. Left alone she stood a moment looking
before her; then with a vague advance, held apparently by a quickly
growing sense of the implication of her act, reached a table where she
remained a little, deep afresh in thought--only the next thing to fall
into a chair close to it and there, with her elbows on it, yield to the
impulse of covering her flushed face with her hands.
BOOK THIRD
I
HUGH CRIMBLE waited again in the Bruton Street drawing-room--this time
at the afternoon hour; he restlessly shifted his place, looked at things
about him without seeing them; all he saw, all he outwardly studied,
was his own face and figure as he stopped an instant before a long glass
suspended between two windows. Just as he turned from that brief and
perhaps not wholly gratified inspection Lady Grace--that he had sent
up his name to whom was immediately apparent--presented herself at
the entrance from the other room. These young persons had hereupon no
instant exchange of words; their exchange was mute--they but paused
where they were; while the silence of each evidently tested the other
for full confidence. A measure of this comfort came first, it would have
appeared, to Hugh; though he then at once asked for confirmation of it.
“Am I right, Lady Grace, am I right?--to have come, I mean, after so
many days of not hearing, not knowing, and perhaps, all too stupidly,
not trying.” And he went on as, still with her eyes on him, she didn’t
speak; though, only, we should have guessed, from her stress of emotion.
“Even if I’m wrong, let me tell you, I don’t care--simply because,
whatever new difficulty I may have brought about for you here a
fortnight ago, there’s something that to-day adds to my doubt and my
fear too great a pang, and that has made me feel I can scarce bear the
suspense of them as they are.”
The girl came nearer, and if her grave face expressed a pity it yet
declined a dread. “Of what suspense do you speak? Your still being
without the other opinion--?”
“Ah, that worries me, yes; and all the more, at this hour, as I say,
that--” He dropped it, however: “I’ll tell you in a moment! My real
torment, all the while, has been not to know, from day to day, what
situation, what complication that last scene of ours with your father
here has let you in for; and yet at the same time--having no sign nor
sound from you!--to see the importance of not making anything possibly
worse by approaching you again, however discreetly. I’ve been in the
dark,” he pursued, “and feeling that I must leave you there; so that
now--just brutally turning up once more under personal need and at any
cost--I don’t know whether I most want or most fear what I may learn
from you.”
Lady Grace, listening and watching, appeared to choose between different
ways of meeting this appeal; she had a pacifying, postponing gesture,
marked with a beautiful authority, a sign of the value for her of what
she gave precedence to and which waved off everything else. “Have you
had--first of all--any news yet of Bardi?”
“That I have is what has driven me straight at you again--since I’ve
shown you before how I turn to you at a crisis. He has come as I hoped
and like a regular good ‘un,” Hugh was able to state; “I’ve just met
him at the station, but I pick him up again, at his hotel in Clifford
Street, at five. He stopped, on his way from Dover this morning, to my
extreme exasperation, to ‘sample’ Canterbury, and I leave him to a
bath and a change and tea. Then swooping down I whirl him round to Bond
Street, where his very first apprehension of the thing (an apprehension,
oh I guarantee you, so quick and clean and fine and wise) will be the
flash-light projected--well,” said the young man, to wind up handsomely,
but briefly and reasonably, “over the whole field of our question.”
She panted with comprehension. “That of the two portraits being but the
one sitter!”
“That of the two portraits being but the one sitter. With everything so
to the good, more and more, that bangs in, up to the head, the golden
nail of authenticity, and”--he quite glowed through his gloom for
it--“we take our stand in glory on the last Mantovano in the world.”
It was a presumption his friend visibly yearned for--but over which,
too, with her eyes away from him, she still distinguished the shadow of
a cloud. “That is if the flash-light comes!”
“That is if it comes indeed, confound it!”--he had to enlarge a little
under the recall of past experience. “So now, at any rate, you see my
tension!”
She looked at him again as with a vision too full for a waste of words.
“While you on your side of course keep well in view Mr. Bender’s.”
“Yes, while I keep well in view Mr. Bender’s; though he doesn’t know,
you see, of Bardi’s being at hand.”
“Still,” said the girl, always all lucid for the case, “if the
‘flash-light’ does presently break----!”
“It will first take him in the eye?” Hugh had jumped to her idea, but he
adopted it only to provide: “It might if he didn’t now wear goggles, so
to say!--clapped on him too hard by Pappendick’s so damnably perverse
opinion.” With which, however, he quickly bethought himself. “Ah, of
course, these wretched days, you haven’t known of Pappendick’s personal
visit. After that wire from Verona I wired him back defiance--”
“And that brought him?” she cried.
“To do the honest thing, yes--I will say for him: to renew, for full
assurance, his early memory of our picture.”
She hung upon it. “But only to stick then to what he had telegraphed?”
“To declare that for him, lackaday! our thing’s a pure Moretto--and
to declare as much, moreover, with all the weight of his authority, to
Bender himself, who of course made a point of seeing him.”
“So that Bender”--she followed and wondered--“is, as a consequence,
wholly off?”
It made her friend’s humour play up in his acute-ness. “Bender,
Lady Grace, is, by the law of his being, never ‘wholly’ off--or
on!--anything. He lives, like the moon, in mid-air, shedding his silver
light on earth; never quite gone, yet never all there--save for
inappreciable moments. He would be in eclipse as a peril, I grant,”
 Hugh went on--“if the question had struck him as really closed. But
luckily the blessed Press--which is a pure heavenly joy and now quite
immense on it--keeps it open as wide as Piccadilly.”
“Which makes, however,” Lady Grace discriminated, “for the danger of a
grab.”
“Ah, but all the more for the shame of a surrender! Of course I admit
that when it’s a question of a life spent, like his, in waiting,
acquisitively, for the cat to jump, the only thing for one, at a given
moment, as against that signal, is to be found one’s self by the animal
in the line of its trajectory. That’s exactly,” he laughed, “where we
are!”
She cast about as intelligently to note the place. “Your great idea, you
mean, has so worked--with the uproar truly as loud as it has seemed to
come to us here?”
“All beyond my wildest hope,” Hugh returned; “since the sight of the
picture, flocked to every day by thousands, so beautifully tells. That
we must at any cost keep it, that the nation must, and hang on to it
tight, is the cry that fills the air--to the tune of ten letters a day
in the Papers, with every three days a gorgeous leader; to say nothing
of more and more passionate talk all over the place, some of it awfully
wild, but all of it wind in our sails.”
“I suppose it was that wind then that blew me round there to see the
thing in its new light,” Lady Grace said. “But I couldn’t stay--for
tears!”
“Ah,” Hugh insisted on his side for comfort, “we’ll crow loudest yet!
And don’t meanwhile, just don’t, those splendid strange eyes of the
fellow seem consciously to plead? The women, bless them, adore him,
cling to him, and there’s talk of a ‘Ladies’ League of Protest’--all of
which keeps up the pitch.”
“Poor Amy and I are a ladies’ league,” the girl joylessly joked--“as we
now take in the ‘Journal’ regardless of expense.”
“Oh then you practically have it all--since,” Hugh, added after
a brief hesitation, “I suppose Lord Theign himself doesn’t languish
uninformed.”
“At far-off Salsomaggiore--by the papers? No doubt indeed he isn’t
spared even the worst,” said Lady Grace--“and no doubt too it’s a drag
on his cure.”
Her companion seemed struck with her lack of assurance. “Then you
don’t--if I may ask--hear from him?”
“I? Never a word.”
“He doesn’t write?” Hugh allowed himself to insist.
“He doesn’t write. And I don’t write either.”
“And Lady Sandgate?” Hugh once more ventured.
“Doesn’t she write?”
“Doesn’t she hear?” said the young man, treating the other form of the
question as a shade evasive.
“I’ve asked her not to tell me,” his friend replied--“that is if he
simply holds out.”
“So that as she doesn’t tell you”--Hugh was clear for the inference--“he
of course does hold out.” To which he added almost accusingly while his
eyes searched her: “But your case is really bad.”
She confessed to it after a moment, but as if vaguely enjoying it. “My
case is really bad.”
He had a vividness of impatience and contrition. 197
“And it’s I who--all too blunderingly!--have made it so?”
“I’ve made it so myself,” she said with a high head-shake, “and you, on
the contrary--!” But here she checked her emphasis.
“Ah, I’ve so wanted, through our horrid silence, to help you!” And he
pressed to get more at the truth. “You’ve so quite fatally displeased
him?”
“To the last point--as I tell you. But it’s not to that I refer,” she
explained; “it’s to the ground of complaint I’ve given you.” And then
as this but left him blank, “It’s time--it was at once time--that you
should know,” she pursued; “and yet if it’s hard for me to speak, as you
see, it was impossible for me to write. But there it is.” She made her
sad and beautiful effort. “The last thing before he left us I let the
picture go.”
“You mean--?” But he could only wonder--till, however, it glimmered upon
him. “You gave up your protest?”
“I gave up my protest. I told him that--so far as I’m concerned!--he
might do as he liked.”
Her poor friend turned pale at the sharp little shock of it; but if his
face thus showed the pang of too great a surprise he yet wreathed the
convulsion in a gay grimace. “You leave me to struggle alone?”
“I leave you to struggle alone.”
He took it in bewilderingly, but tried again, even to the heroic,
for optimism. “Ah well, you decided, I suppose, on some new personal
ground.”
“Yes; a reason came up, a reason I hadn’t to that extent looked for
and which of a sudden--quickly, before he went--I had somehow to deal
with. So to give him my word in the dismal sense I mention was my only
way to meet the strain.” She paused; Hugh waited for something further,
and “I gave him my word I wouldn’t help you,” she wound up.
He turned it over. “To act in the matter--I see.”
“To act in the matter”--she went through with it--“after the high stand
I had taken.”
Still he studied it. “I see--I see. It’s between you and your father.”
“It’s between him and me--yes. An engagement not again to trouble him.”
Hugh, from his face, might have feared a still greater complication; so
he made, as he would probably have said, a jolly lot of this. “Ah, that
was nice of you. And natural. That’s all right!”
“No”--she spoke from a deeper depth--“it’s altogether wrong. For
whatever happens I must now accept it.”
“Well, say you must”--he really declined not to treat it almost as
rather a “lark”--“if we can at least go on talking.”
“Ah, we can at least go on talking!” she perversely sighed. “I can say
anything I like so long as I don’t say it to him” she almost wailed.
But she added with more firmness: “I can still hope--and I can still
pray.”
He set free again with a joyous gesture all his confidence. “Well, what
more could you do, anyhow? So isn’t that enough?”
It took her a moment to say, and even then she didn’t. “Is it enough for
you, Mr. Crimble?”
“What is enough for me”--he could for his part readily name it--“is
the harm done you at our last meeting by my irruption; so that if you
got his consent to see me----!”
“I didn’t get his consent!”--she had turned away from the searching
eyes, but she faced them again to rectify: “I see you against his
express command.”
“Ah then thank God I came!”--it was like a bland breath on a feu de
joie: he flamed so much higher.
“Thank God you’ve come, yes--for my deplorable exposure.” And to justify
her name for it before he could protest, “I offered him here not to
see you,” she rigorously explained.
“‘Offered him?”--Hugh did drop for it. “Not to see me--ever again?”
She didn’t falter. “Never again.”
Ah then he understood. “But he wouldn’t let that serve----?”
“Not for the price I put on it.”
“His yielding on the picture?”
“His yielding on the picture.”
Hugh lingered before it all. “Your proposal wasn’t ‘good enough’?”
“It wasn’t good enough.”
“I see,” he repeated--“I see.” But he was in that light again mystified.
“Then why are you therefore not free?”
“Because--just after--you came back, and I did see you again!”
Ah, it was all present. “You found you were too sorry for me?”
“I found I was too sorry for you--as he himself found I was.”
Hugh had got hold of it now. “And that, you mean, he couldn’t
stomach?”
“So little that when you had gone (and how you had to go you remember)
he at once proposed, rather than that I should deceive you in a way so
different from his own----”
“To do all we want of him?”
“To do all I did at least.”
“And it was then,” he took in, “that you wouldn’t deal?”
“Well”--try though she might to keep the colour out, it all came
straighter and straighter now--“those moments had brought you home to
me as they had also brought him; making such a difference, I felt, for
what he veered round to agree to.”
“The difference”--Hugh wanted it so adorably definite--“that you didn’t
see your way to accepting----?”
“No, not to accepting the condition he named.”
“Which was that he’d keep the picture for you if you’d treat me as too
‘low’----?”
“If I’d treat you,” said Lady Grace with her eyes on his fine young
face, “as impossible.”
He kept her eyes--he clearly liked so to make her repeat it. “And
not even for the sake of the picture--?” After he had given her time,
however, her silence, with her beautiful look in it, seemed to admonish
him not to force her for his pleasure; as if what she had already told
him didn’t make him throb enough for the wonder of it. He had it, and
let her see by his high flush how he made it his own--while, the next
thing, as it was but part of her avowal, the rest of that illumination
called for a different intelligence. “Your father’s reprobation of me
personally is on the ground that you’re all such great people?”
She spared him the invidious answer to this as, a moment before, his
eagerness had spared her reserve; she flung over the “ground” that his
question laid bare the light veil of an evasion, “‘Great people,’ I’ve
learned to see, mustn’t--to remain great--do what my father’s doing.”
“It’s indeed on the theory of their not so behaving,” Hugh returned,
“that we see them--all the inferior rest of us--in the grand glamour of
their greatness!”
If he had spoken to meet her admirable frankness half-way, that beauty
in her almost brushed him aside to make at a single step the rest of the
journey. “You won’t see them in it for long--if they don’t now, under
such tests and with such opportunities, begin to take care.”
This had given him, at a stroke, he clearly felt, all freedom for the
closer criticism. “Lord Theign perhaps recognises some such canny truth,
but ‘takes care,’ with the least trouble to himself and the finest short
cut--does it, if you’ll let me say so, rather on the cheap--by finding
‘the likes’ of me, as his daughter’s trusted friend, out of the
question.”
“Well, you won’t mind that, will you?” Lady Grace asked, “if he finds
his daughter herself, in any such relation to you, quite as much so.”
“Different enough, from position to position and person to person,” he
brightly brooded, “is the view that gets itself most comfortably taken
of the implications of Honour!”
“Yes,” the girl returned; “my father, in the act of despoiling us
all, all who are interested, without apparently the least unpleasant
consciousness, keeps the balance showily even, to his mostly so fine,
so delicate sense, by suddenly discovering that he’s scandalised at my
caring for your friendship.”
Hugh looked at her, on this, as with the gladness verily of possession
promised and only waiting--or as if from that moment forth he had her
assurance of everything that most concerned him and that might
most inspire. “Well, isn’t the moral of it all simply that what his
perversity of pride, as we can only hold it, will have most done for us
is to bring us--and to keep us--blessedly together?”
She seemed for a moment to question his “simply.” “Do you regard us as
so much ‘together’ when you remember where, in spite of everything, I’ve
put myself?”
“By telling him to do what he likes?” he recalled without embarrassment.
“Oh, that wasn’t in spite of ‘everything’--it was only in spite of the
Manto-vano.”
“‘Only’?” she flushed--“when I’ve given the picture up?”
“Ah,” Hugh cried, “I don’t care a hang for the picture!” And then as she
let him, closer, close to her with this, possess himself of her hands:
“We both only care, don’t we, that we’re given to each other thus? We
both only care, don’t we, that nothing can keep us apart?”
“Oh, if you’ve forgiven me--!” she sighed into his fond face.
“Why, since you gave the thing up for me,” he pleadingly laughed, “it
isn’t as if you had given me up----!”
“For anything, anything? Ah never, never!” she breathed.
“Then why aren’t we all right?”
“Well, if you will----!”
“Oh for ever and ever and ever!”--and with this ardent cry of his
devotion his arms closed in their strength and she was clasped to his
breast and to his lips.
The next moment, however, she had checked him with the warning “Amy
Sandgate!”--as if she had heard their hostess enter the other room. Lady
Sand-gate was in fact almost already upon them--their disjunction had
scarce been effected and she had reached the nearer threshold. They
had at once put the widest space possible between them--a little of
the flurry of which transaction agitated doubtless their clutch at
composure. They gave back a shade awkwardly and consciously, on one side
and the other, the speculative though gracious attention she for a few
moments made them and their recent intimate relation the subject of;
from all of which indeed Lady Grace sought and found cover in a prompt
and responsible address to Hugh. “Mustn’t you go without more delay to
Clifford Street?”
He came back to it all alert “At once!” He had recovered his hat and
reached the other door, whence he gesticulated farewell to the elder
lady. “Please pardon me”--and he disappeared.
Lady Sandgate hereupon stood for a little silently confronted with the
girl. “Have you freedom of mind for the fact that your father’s suddenly
at hand?”
“He has come back?”--Lady Grace was sharply struck.
“He arrives this afternoon and appears to go straight to
Kitty--according to a wire that I find downstairs on coming back
late from my luncheon. He has returned with a rush--as,” said his
correspondent in the elation of triumph, “I was sure he would!”
Her young friend was more at sea. “Brought back, you mean, by the
outcry--even though he so hates it?”
But she was more and more all lucidity--save in so far as she was now
almost all authority. “Ah, hating still more to seem afraid, he has come
back to face the music!”
Lady Grace, turning away as in vague despair for the manner in which
the music might affect him, yet wheeled about again, after thought, to
a positive recognition and even to quite an inconsequent pride.
“Yes--that’s dear old father!”
And what was Lady Sandgate moreover but mistress now of the subject?
“At the point the row has reached he couldn’t stand it another day; so
he has thrown up his cure and--lest we should oppose him!--not even
announced his start.”
“Well,” her companion returned, “now that I’ve done it all I shall
never oppose him again!”
Lady Sandgate appeared to show herself as still under the impression she
might have received on entering. “He’ll only oppose you!”
“If he does,” said Lady Grace, “we’re at present two to bear it.”
“Heaven save us then”--the elder woman was quick, was even cordial, for
the sense of this--“your good friend is clever!”
Lady Grace honoured the remark. “Mr. Crim-ble’s remarkably clever.”
“And you’ve arranged----?”
“We haven’t arranged--but we’ve understood. So that, dear Amy, if you
understand--!” Lady Grace paused, for Gotch had come in from the hall.
“His lordship has arrived?” his mistress immediately put to him.
“No, my lady, but Lord John has--to know if he’s expected here, and in
that case, by your ladyship’s leave, to come up.”
Her ladyship turned to the girl. “May Lord John--as we do await your
father--come up?”
“As suits you, please!”
“He may come up,” said Lady Sandgate to Gotch. “His lordship’s
expected.” She had a pause till they were alone again, when she went
on to her companion: “You asked me just now if I understood. Well--I do
understand!”
Lady Grace, with Gotch’s withdrawal, which left the door open, had
reached the passage to the other room. “Then you’ll excuse me!”--she
made her escape.
II
Lord John, reannounced the next instant from the nearest quarter and
quite waiving salutations, left no doubt of the high pitch of his
eagerness and tension as soon as the door had closed behind him. “What
on earth then do you suppose he has come back to do--?” To which he
added while his hostess’s gesture impatiently disclaimed conjecture:
“Because when a fellow really finds himself the centre of a
cyclone----!”
“Isn’t it just at the centre,” she interrupted, “that you keep
remarkably still, and only in the suburbs that you feel the rage? I
count on dear Theign’s doing nothing in the least foolish--!”
“Ah, but he can’t have chucked everything for nothing,” Lord John
sharply returned; “and wherever you place him in the rumpus he can’t
not meet somehow, hang it, such an assault on his character as a great
nobleman and good citizen.”
“It’s his luck to have become with the public of the newspapers the
scapegoat-in-chief: for the sins, so-called, of a lot of people!” Lady
Sandgate inconclusively sighed.
“Yes,” Lord John concluded for her, “the mercenary millions on whose
traffic in their trumpery values--when they’re so lucky as to have
any!--this isn’t a patch!”
“Oh, there are cases and cases: situations and responsibilities so
intensely differ!”--that appeared on the whole, for her ladyship, the
moral to be gathered.
“Of course everything differs, all round, from everything,” Lord John
went on; “and who in the world knows anything of his own case but the
victim of circumstances exposing himself, for the highest and purest
motives, to be literally torn to pieces?”
“Well,” said Lady Sandgate as, in her strained suspense, she freshly
consulted her bracelet watch, “I hope he isn’t already torn--if you tell
me you’ve been to Kitty’s.”
“Oh, he was all right so far: he had arrived and gone out again,” the
young man explained, “as Lady Imber hadn’t been at home.”
“Ah cool Kitty!” his hostess sighed again--but diverted, as she spoke,
by the reappearance of her butler, this time positively preceding Lord
Theign, whom she met, when he presently stood before her, his garb
of travel exchanged for consummate afternoon dress, with yearning
tenderness and compassionate curiosity. “At last, dearest friend--what a
joy! But with Kitty not at home to receive you?”
That young woman’s parent made light of it for the indulged creature’s
sake. “Oh I knew my Kitty! I dressed and I find her at five-thirty.”
 To which he added as he only took in further, without expression, Lord
John: “But Bender, who came there before my arrival--he hasn’t tried for
me here?”
It was a point on which Lord John himself could at least be expressive.
“I met him at the club at luncheon; he had had your letter--but for
which chance, my dear man, I should have known nothing. You’ll see him
all right at this house; but I’m glad, if I may say so, Theign,” the
speaker pursued with some emphasis--“I’m glad, you know, to get hold of
you first.”
Lord Theign seemed about to ask for the meaning of this remark, but his
other companion’s apprehension had already overflowed. “You haven’t come
back, have you--to whatever it may be!--for trouble of any sort with
Breckenridge?”
His lordship transferred his penetration to this fair friend, “Have
you become so intensely absorbed--these remarkable days!--in
‘Breckenridge’?”
She felt the shadow, you would have seen, of his claimed right, or at
least privilege, of search--yet easily, after an instant, emerged clear.
“I’ve thought and dreamt but of you--suspicious man!--in proportion as
the clamour has spread; and Mr. Bender meanwhile, if you want to know,
hasn’t been near me once!”
Lord John came in a manner, and however unconsciously, to her aid.
“You’d have seen, if he had been, what’s the matter with him, I
think--and what perhaps Theign has seen from his own letter: since,” he
went on to his fellow-visitor, “I understood him a week ago to have been
much taken up with writing you.”
Lord Theign received this without comment, only again with an air of
expertly sounding the speaker; after which he gave himself afresh for
a moment to Lady Sandgate. “I’ve not come home for any clamour, as you
surely know me well enough to believe; or to notice for a minute the
cheapest insolence and aggression--which frankly scarce reached me out
there; or which, so far as it did, I was daily washed clean of by those
blest waters. I returned on Mr. Bender’s letter,” he then vouchsafed
to Lord John--“three extraordinarily vulgar pages about the egregious
Pap-pendick!”
“About his having suddenly turned up in person, yes, and, as
Breckenridge says, marked the picture down?”--the young man was clearly
all-knowing. “That has of course weighed on Bender--being confirmed
apparently, on the whole, by the drift of public opinion.”
Lord Theign took, on this, with a frank show of reaction from some of
his friend’s terms, a sharp turn off; he even ironically indicated the
babbler or at least the blunderer in question to Lady Sandgate. “He too
has known me so long, and he comes here to talk to me of ‘the drift of
public opinion’!” After which he quite charged at his vain informant.
“Am I to tell you again that I snap my fingers at the drift of public
opinion?--which is but another name for the chatter of all the fools one
doesn’t know, in addition to all those (and plenty of ‘em!) one damnably
does.”
Lady Sandgate, by a turn of the hand, dropped oil from her golden cruse.
“Ah, you did that, in your own grand way, before you went abroad!”
“I don’t speak of the matter, my dear man, in the light of its effect on
you,” Lord John importantly explained--“but in the light of its effect
on Bender; who so consumedly wants the picture, if he is to have it,
to be a Mantovano, but seems unable to get it taken at last for anything
but the fine old Moretto that of course it has always been.”
Lord Theign, in growing disgust at the whole beastly complication,
betrayed more and more the odd pitch of the temper that had abruptly
restored him with such incalculable weight to the scene of action.
“Well, isn’t a fine old Moretto good enough for him; confound him?”
It pulled up not a little Lord John, who yet made his point. “A fine old
Moretto, you know, was exactly what he declined at Dedborough--for its
comparative, strictly comparative, insignificance; and he only thought
of the picture when the wind began to rise for the enormous rarity--”
“That that mendacious young cad who has bamboozled Grace,” Lord Theign
broke in, “tried to befool us, for his beggarly reasons, into claiming
for it?”
Lady Sandgate renewed her mild influence. “Ah, the knowing people
haven’t had their last word--the possible Mantovano isn’t exploded
yet!” Her noble friend, however, declined the offered spell. “I’ve
had enough of the knowing people--the knowing people are serpents! My
picture’s to take or to leave--and it’s what I’ve come back, if you
please, John, to say to your man to his face.”
This declaration had a report as sharp and almost as multiplied as the
successive cracks of a discharged revolver; yet when the light smoke
cleared Lady Sand-gate at least was still left standing and smiling.
“Yes, why in mercy’s name can’t he choose which?--and why does he
write him, dreadful Breckenridge, such tiresome argumentative letters?”
Lord John took up her idea as with the air of something that had been
working in him rather vehemently, though under due caution too, as a
consequence of this exchange, during which he had apprehensively watched
his elder. “I don’t think I quite see how, my dear Theign, the poor
chap’s letter was so offensive.”
In that case his dear Theign could tell him. “Because it was a tissue
of expressions that may pass current--over counters and in awful
newspapers--in his extraordinary world or country, but that I decline
to take time to puzzle out here.”
“If he didn’t make himself understood,” Lord John took leave to laugh,
“it must indeed have been an unusual production for Bender.”
“Oh, I often, with the wild beauty, if you will, of so many of his
turns, haven’t a notion,” Lady Sandgate confessed with an equal gaiety,
“of what he’s talking about.”
“I think I never miss his weird sense,” her younger guest again loyally
contended--“and in fact as a general thing I rather like it!”
“I happen to like nothing that I don’t enjoy,” Lord Theign rejoined with
some asperity--“and so far as I do follow the fellow he assumes on my
part an interest in his expenditure of purchase-money that I neither
feel nor pretend to. He doesn’t want--by what I spell out--the picture
he refused at Dedborough; he may possibly want--if one reads it so--the
picture on view in Bond Street; and he yet appears to make, with great
emphasis, the stupid ambiguous point that these two ‘articles’ (the
greatest of Morettos an ‘article’!) haven’t been ‘by now’ proved
different: as if I engaged with him that I myself would so prove them!”
Lord John indulged in a pause--but also in a suggestion. “He must
allude to your hoping--when you allowed us to place the picture with
Mackintosh--that it would show to all London in the most precious light
conceivable.”
“Well, if it hasn’t so shown”--and Lord Theign stared as if
mystified--“what in the world’s the meaning of this preposterous
racket?”
“The racket is largely,” his young friend explained, “the vociferation
of the people who contradict each other about it.”
On which their hostess sought to enliven the gravity of the question.
“Some--yes--shouting on the housetops that’s a Mantovano of the
Mantovanos, and others shrieking back at them that they’re donkeys if
not criminals.”
“He may take it for whatever he likes,” said Lord Theign, heedless of
these contributions, “he may father it on Michael Angelo himself if
he’ll but clear out with it and let me alone!”
“What he’d like to take it for,” Lord John at this point saw his way
to remark, “is something in the nature of a Hundred Thousand.”
“A Hundred Thousand?” cried his astonished friend.
“Quite, I dare say, a Hundred Thousand”--the young man enjoyed clearly
handling even by the lips so round a sum.
Lady Sandgate disclaimed however with agility any appearance of having
gaped. “Why, haven’t you yet realised, Theign, that those are the
American figures?”
His lordship looked at her fixedly and then did the same by Lord John,
after which he waited a little. “I’ve nothing to do with the American
figures--which seem to me, if you press me, you know, quite intolerably
vulgar.”
“Well, I’d be as vulgar as anybody for a Hundred Thousand!” Lady
Sandgate hastened to proclaim.
“Didn’t he let us know at Dedborough,” Lord John asked of the master of
that seat, “that he had no use, as he said, for lower values?”
“I’ve heard him remark myself,” said their companion, rising to the
monstrous memory, “that he wouldn’t take a cheap picture--even though a
‘handsome’ one--as a present.”
“And does he call the thing round the corner a cheap picture?” the
