where he had kissed them unrebuked.  Many a sun and moon and rain had
smoothed out that delicate sign manual long since.  Only upon her heart
the imprint of his lips remained.

Then—for the path was easy to her; alas! too easy—she sent her spirit
back along the Road to Yesterday; and soon she heard the starlings
piping and saw the sky all rose and gold above the river; and she saw
him, and heard his voice, talking of starlings and of children.

If a single bright tear fell, the moss buried it; and when at last she
could see her letter paper through glimmering lashes, she inked her pen
and set her small, sun-tanned hand resolutely to the task before her:

"Jim, dear, Silvette is going to marry Jack Rivett.  She is supremely
happy.  I inclose her note to you.

"Only the families concerned know about it yet.  It is to be announced
in December. The date of the wedding has not yet been fixed.

"I write you this pleasant news because you are our nearest relative.

"In my last letter I told you that Silvette did not love him.  I was
wrong; she did love him all the while, but she was too decent to know
it.  So how on earth was I to suspect it? I didn’t, and she didn’t, and
if it hadn’t been for Jack kicking over the traces and cantering away
out of bounds, there probably would have been a tragedy in the family;
for Silvette and I had your kind and sensible letter, saying that the
only honorable thing to do was to take the first opportunity to withdraw
from Adriutha, and we had decided you were right.

"But man proposes, Jim, and the far gods laugh at him—not unkindly,
sometimes.  My little sister is radiantly happy.  Jack is a dear; so is
his sister and parents.

"It amuses me to realize that I have come to be a purveyor of marital
news to you. First, it was Christine and Mr. Inwood; now it’s Silvette
and Jack.  The nearest I can come to rounding out the classical triad of
the blessed is to inform you, monsieur, that the symptoms of Colonel
Curmew are becoming acute.  He tried to take my hand in the billiard
room—not my bridge hand, either.

"He retains my hand too long when he helps me into a canoe.  The other
day I was horribly tempted to tip him into the river; he said such silly
things and popped his eyes and went into rhapsodies over my ankles—which
was slightly infringing les convenances, wasn’t it?

"But he’s merely a foolish, pompous, well-meaning man, slightly silly
about all women, but with a very kind heart, I fancy.  He is always
doing things for me, always strutting around me and shooting his cuffs
and curling his mustaches.  Half the time I don’t understand his
talk—his jokes and apparently witty innuendoes, which perhaps are very
funny, for he laughs at them himself, and I have to smile and pretend I
am not stupid.

"No flight has occurred, although there was a white frost Saturday
night.

"The shooting brotherhood are anxious and gloomy.  Some even declare
that a flight did occur Saturday night; that the birds remained with us
over Sunday, when nobody could shoot, and left Sunday night, which was
bitter cold and froze water in the garden.

"I don’t know about such things—and don’t care very much.  It seems to
me that these big, red-faced men make a ridiculous to-do about the
migrations of a few small birds.

"Scott Wallace is the laziest man—which reminds me in time, Jim, to
speak about your apparent attitude toward Scott.  I merely wrote you
that you would like him if you knew him.

"To my surprise, you wrote that you, personally, had no use for the kind
of man I described.

"Was that a snub for me or for Scott? I’m sorry I spoke of him.  To me
he is a nice, wholesome, amusing fellow, so friendly to everybody that,
somehow, your letter—what you said in it about a man you never met—hurt
me.  You would like him if you knew him.  So, with this feminine
prerogative, I close my lips about Scott Wallace for the present and the
future.

"I am glad your arm is practically well; but what makes me entirely
contented is what you say of your constant and bewildering promotions.
Best of all is what I read between the lines—that you really love the
business—the business of generations of Edgertons; and you, the last of
them—but not the last, God willing!—are plunging into the game up to
your neck, interested, optimistic, enthusiastic, fitting yourself for
that dignified place which is yours, Jim, by every right.

"Now that it’s over, and the mist blown clear of your path forever, I
want to confess to you how dreadfully I felt to see you here in such a
capacity.  More than that, your light talk about the arts, your light
and graceful accomplishments in them, your tendency to drift back toward
a career for which you are no more fitted than I—all these things
troubled me deeply, so that, sometimes, I even dreamed of them, and
finally came to regard your facility with actual fear, so jealous was I
for your real career, so anxious was I that you should become your real
self.

"I suppose you will scarcely believe it, Jim, when I tell you that this
feeling began from the very moment when you offered to go with Silvette
and me to Adriutha.  Somehow, blindly, I understood even then that it
was not the thing for you to do; and, remember, I knew you scarcely at
all.

"Yet my instinct resented your going, and if I did not actually protest,
perhaps you may recollect that my attitude was not cordial; that you had
to ask me many times for my vote; that, after all, I never cast it, but
simply refrained from voting at all.

"I suppose this was cowardly in me; yet, Jim, what else could I have
done?  I scarcely knew you; I dared not appear ungrateful after your
kindness to Silvette and to me.

"Forgive this self-defense.  I merely wanted you to know; I only wish
you to understand that, at heart anyway, I have been, from the
beginning, loyal to the best interests of a friend and a kinsman who was
most kind to two girls alone in the world."


"This is a still, golden, autumn world—autumn no longer, alas! for we
are already well along in November.  But autumn lingers in this land of
hills and waters, and the frost was not severe enough to blacken the
late roses.  If the weather is unseasonable, it is also charming, and I
love it.  Russet and gold always did fascinate me—like the hangings and
tapestries in your studio, with the dusty sunlight falling over all.

"Eh bien, monsieur, I must conclude my monologue.  You are a brave man
if you have read as far as the name you gave me once—centuries ago.

"JAPONETTE."


She closed and sealed her letter, wrote his name on the envelope, rested
awhile, blue eyes seeing nothing; then, touching the envelope with her
lips, she laid it between the leaves of her portfolio.

Since that day in this very place, Edgerton had spoken no more of love
to her.  She knew that he never would again, that what had begun here on
the Path to Yesterday had ended where the path ended.  Never again would
he retrace those steps with her; never again travel them alone.  For it
was a lost road to him, a blind trail already overgrown with briars.
The days made it fainter, the months were hiding it, the years would
obliterate it for him.  But for her, alas—she had many a pilgrimage yet
to make along that briar-grown path; and many a scar, yet unmade, must
heal before that path closed before her pilgrim feet, and shut out
forever from her eyes the hidden shrine it led to, where the sky was
rosy above the river and the starlings called through the golden light
of Paradise.

And now, as she stood up, the subtle scent of autumn hung heavy in the
air—a faint odor of ripening, hinting of decay and death. Summer had
gone indeed—on earth and in her heart.

Never again would life be the same to her after this day, in this place,
alone with memory; never again would she be the same.  How old her heart
had become—how old—how old! O amari dies!  O flebiles noctes!


She rode that afternoon with Colonel Curmew, accepting him instead of
another because she thought his chatter might leave her freer to follow
her own thoughts.

But after a while it seemed to her as though she could no longer endure
them, and that the colonel’s inanities were preferable.

They were riding down a mountain road, the horses picking a cautious way
among the scattered stones.

He was paying court to her, as usual, and she had been riding on,
smiling absently, preoccupied with her own thoughts and mentally
oblivious to him, when there came a clatter of stones from behind, and
Scott Wallace galloped recklessly up at the risk of his horse’s neck as
well as his own.

"Halloo!" he said cheerfully; "hope I’m not smashing a twosome,
colonel."

The colonel glanced sourly at him.  Diana laughed with pleasure: "Not at
all, Scott! Colonel Curmew and I are old acquaintances, and the
resources of sentiment were long ago exhausted between us.  Where are
you going?"

"Nowhere; I just felt like a gallop.  All the chaps are kickin’ over the
flight, which either isn’t goin’ to materialize or passed over Sunday
and made boobs of the bunch of us. Where are you goin’?"

"Nowhere in particular; come with us.  My nerves needed soothing, so I
took the colonel along."

"As a tonic or quieter?" asked Wallace so seriously that Diana threw
back her pretty head and the woodlands were melodious.

The colonel laughed loudly, too, and began to hate young Wallace with a
hatred that passes all understanding.

Wallace turned to her.  "What’s wrong with your nerves?  I supposed
you hadn’t any."

"I didn’t know it either, Scott.  Probably I’ve played with cards and
cigarettes too hard. For all the sunshine, to-day has been a gray one
for me....  Shall we gallop?"

She launched her horse into a trot, a canter, then into a dead run.
Behind her tore the two men through the afternoon sunlight, on, on,
until their winded mounts topped the homeward crest of the hill and they
looked down on the meadows of Adriutha.

They wended their way down the mountain in silence—Diana, grave and
apparently tired; Wallace smiling slightly, and glancing at her from
moment to moment; Colonel Curmew pop-eyed, expressionless, curling his
mustache with gloved fingers.

He was furious with Diana, with Wallace, with himself.  Yet even he
could not see how he might have resented the young man’s intrusion
otherwise than by the lack of cordiality which he had certainly
manifested.  Besides Diana had invited him to remain with them.  Of what
low tricks women are capable! Because she knew well enough that he had
desired and sought a tête-à-tête.

Curling his mustache tighter, he rode on, a good figure in the saddle
always—ruminating, considering, angry because of the interruption.

For Colonel Follis Curmew had for days, now, been carefully preparing
the way for something he meant to say to Diana.  He was a cautious man
with women; he reconnoitered by degrees, inch by inch, carefully
watching effect.  Hint, innuendo, double meanings, sly feelers, veiled
intent, was the strategy he usually employed at first, skirmishing as
close to the dead line as he dared; furtive, alert, ready always for a
brilliant and resistless climax at the psychological moment.

A few minutes ago he had believed that the psychological moment was
approaching.  He had said one or two things so cleverly that not the
least resentment had altered her smile; but how was he to know that, if
she had heard him at all, she had not in the least understood him?  It
takes more than one to play a game of that kind.  The trouble was that
her smiling inattention had deceived him—had always deceived him.  He
was entirely persuaded that she had drifted into the game long ago.

Surely, surely the psychological moment had been close at hand when that
big fool of a boy had come clattering downhill and smashed their
approaching understanding into smithereens for the moment.  The colonel
silently damned him as he rode.  It took time and patience to gather up
and piece together the fragments and smithereens; it took skill and
watchfulness to choose another such propitious day and hour—to select
the scenery and the moment for what he meant to say to this young girl.

As he dismounted her at the foot of the terrace he pressed her arm
significantly, and said under his breath:

"Can we get away for a moment together this evening?"

Wallace was close by, and the colonel spoke so low and pinched so
discreetly that she neither understood nor noticed his amenities, so she
merely nodded smilingly, thanked him for his escort, and ran up the
steps beside Wallace.

"I’ll be in the billiard room later, if that interests you," she called
back over her shoulder to Wallace as she ascended the stairs.

"It certainly does!" he replied promptly, and went away to change.

Diana continued on to her own room, disturbing Jack and Silvette on the
stairs, and gaily jeering at them as she banged the door. A curious
reaction had set in from the sadness of the morning—a feverish desire to
escape from herself, from the misery that lay always heavy in her
breast, the relentless hours that weighted her heart so that its dull
beating had become a burden.

The bath refreshed her; so did the tea.  She put on her little Japanese
gown and her straw sandals, and curled up by the window, sipping her tea
and watching the declining sun.

Dusk came swiftly, and with it Silvette who bent over and kissed her,
and tasted the tea, and wandered about the rooms gossiping, too full of
the joy of living to endure silence in herself or in anybody else.

Pangs of swift remorse and self-reproach stabbed her at intervals when
she thought of her own happiness and remembered Diana’s late unhappy
affair.

How far Diana had cured herself, she did not know, but she knew that her
sister was still more or less unhappy about Edgerton.

"Did you send him my note?" she inquired.

"Yes: I wrote him, and inclosed it."

"He’s a dear boy....  How well he must be doing!  He ought to go down on
his knees and thank you every day of his life for what he is turning out
to be."

"He would have turned out all right anyway, sooner or later."

"Well, he’s a horrid pig if he isn’t grateful to you....  I don’t
suppose he has the slightest idea what his regeneration cost you."

"Don’t talk that way, Silvie."

"What way?  I’m merely saying——"

"Don’t say it, dear....  If it cost me anything, he is never going to
know it."

Silvette looked at her wistfully.  "If I could only see you as happy as
I am, Di.... Sometimes I can scarcely bear to be as happy as I am, and
remember that you are not sharing it."

"True," said Diana, smiling; "Jack can’t marry us both, so we can’t
share your happiness, dear."

Silvette came and sat on the arm of the chair, drawing one arm about
Diana’s neck.

"Do you still care for him very much?" she asked sorrowfully.

"Very much."

"Do you think it will last?"

"Yes."

"What are you going to do?"

"Nothing."

"Isn’t there something to do?"

"Nothing."

"Perhaps, all this time he really cares for you."

"There is not the slightest possibility.  I had my chance; he cared for
me—at that moment—when he told me so....  Those men out there"—she made
a vague gesture toward the unseen hills—"are no more deadly cool when
they shoot than was I when I deliberately killed in him whatever love he
may have had for me....  I slew it, I tell you.  There is no
resurrection for dead things."

Silvette sighed heavily, and laid her smooth cheek against her sister’s
hair.

"Still," she murmured half to herself, "there are miracles."

"There were."

"There may be others yet."

"No; I wounded his pride."

"You aroused it."

"By wounding it, and at the expense of what fell dead beside it.  Love
died that day, little sister, and for that death there is no
reincarnation."

Again the feverish desire for escape came over her, seeming to burn
through every vein, and she sprang to her feet and rang for the maid.

"I’m likely to do almost anything to-night," she said.  "Shall I make it
a double event when you’re ready?"

"A double—what?"

"Double event—double wedding?  I can easily do so.  Is it a good way to
drown your griefs, Silvie?  Because the prospect of being alone after
you and Jack marry actually terrifies me."

"You little goose, you’ll live with us!"

"I see myself doing it!—the superfluous spinster to be reckoned with,
counted in at dinners, mollified by kindness, secretly feared for her
acidulated tongue, to be employed later in either bribing or
disciplining the children."

"Di!"

"What?"

"If—in the—the——"

"Course of human events——"

"Jack and I have children," continued Silvette, flushing, "we’ll also
have nurses to look out for the grubby little things."

"Grubby!  You don’t know what you’re saying.  You’ll be the most
adoring—and adorable mother——"

"Well, please don’t talk about it....  I don’t care for children now....
I don’t know how I’ll feel later."

Diana stood in the middle of the room—the smile fading from her face,
her small hands clenching.

"I’ve learned to like children," she said. "I’ve learned to love them,
somehow—even babies....  I want one of my own," she added fiercely.  "I
wish for one very much; and if I can’t have one—and it’s impossible, of
course—I—I’ll marry some man and have one!"

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Silvette, horrified, "what are you talking
about?  I’ll let you have one of mine!"

"I don’t want yours!  How do you know you’ll have any?  How do you know
you’ll have more than one?"

Her eyebrows were bent inward, her lips compressed; she turned her head
and stared out at the stars—from where, they say, all babies come, and
where they all return at last.

"You know," she said calmly, "that I wouldn’t really do such a
thing—even to have what I care for so much....  And yet—if a woman is
tired, hopeless, alone, isn’t marrying some man a help to her?  Can’t
she stand the passing years better?  Doesn’t it give her some respite
from the eternal pain—here"—she laid a slim hand on her breast—"doesn’t
it give her something to live for, especially if children should come?
I don’t know, Silvie; I ask you because I’m tired and confused with the
pain of it."

"My darling!"

She dropped her head on Silvette’s shoulder for a moment; then, as the
maid knocked, lifted it calmly and bade her come in.


That night at dinner she was very gay—a charming, sparkling, bewildering
creature. Through and through Colonel Curmew shot intermittent pangs of
jealousy and doubt, mercifully assuaged by hope; through and through
Scott Wallace her blue eyes seemed to penetrate, exposing to her
laughing gaze his youthful and very susceptible heart.

[Illustration: "That night at dinner she was very gay—a charming,
sparkling, bewildering creature."]

"Certainly I’m bowled over," he admitted cheerfully to himself.  "She is
the cunnin’est thing that ever missed a pheasant; but she’s found me,
all right, with both barrels, and the sky’s full of feathers, and I’m on
the sod, kickin’."

Me managed to tell her so that evening, in language sportsmanlike and
picturesque, before they cut for partners at auction.  She was standing
on the stairs, two steps up; he below her, with his handsome face
lifted.

"All you’ve got to do is to send your dogs forward, and retrieve me,
Diana.  I’m grassed in the open in plain sight."

"Suppose I should take you up, Scott?"

"Is it a go?"

She smiled down at him.

"Take care, young man.  I’m approaching spinsterhood at a terrifying
speed.  How do you know that I may not clutch wildly at you?"

"For Heaven’s sake, clutch!" he urged her.

"How?  Shall I roll up my eyes and whisper, ’Oh, Scott!’—or shall I take
a flying leap at you from here, and rope you before you can get away?
Instruct me, please, because I really don’t know as much about such
customs as perhaps you think I do."

"Take the flyer, Diana; I’ll catch you.  Are you ready?  Come on; be a
sport!"

"I can’t be a sport, Scott.  I try; I make a brave effort to be
cigaretteful and naughty, but—I’m ashamed to say it isn’t in me.  Now
you’ll run, I suppose."

"After you—yes....  Diana, I do love you.  I haven’t said it right,
that’s all.  Will you marry me and make somethin’ out of me besides a
loafin’ lout in puttees?"

"Oh, Scott, you’re so beautiful in puttees! I wouldn’t make anything
else out of you if I could; you must be perfectly gorgeous in pink."

"Come down to the next hunt ball and see. They’re a fine bunch at
Meadowbrook.  You’ll like ’em; maybe you’ll learn to like me."

"I do now, you scatter-brain!  I adore you, Scott; but, you know, love
is a different game."

"That’ll come all right," he protested. "When you’re the missus, and you
see me come a cropper over five bars, you’ll suddenly wake up to find
you love hubby.  And I won’t be hurt, but you’ll think I am, and you’ll
pull up and scramble down and look me over, and cover my pale and
beautiful face with kisses and—I’ll play foxy and let you," he ended
with pleased satisfaction.

The smile on her face had suddenly become fixed: for what he was saying
had conjured up a vision of the polo field, and a young fellow in white
picking himself up from the trampled sod.

Wallace, looking around to see that the hall was empty, sprang up the
two steps and took her hand in his.

"Diana, I do love you dearly," he said. "Will you take me on for a trial
gallop?"

"Do you mean an engagement?" she said, looking him over.

"Yes, I do; will you?"

"What kind of an engagement?"

"The regular—with a sparkler on the side. Will you, Di?"

"No, you very slangy young man, I won’t."

"Well, then—then—what kind of an engagement do you suggest?" he asked
cheerfully. "Just the circingle and halter kind?"

"What kind is that, Scott?"

"Oh, an understanding that you’re not bitted and bridled yet."

"You mean that the engagement lasts during my pleasure?"

"Yes, that’s it."

"And ends in marriage—or a very, very kind note?" she asked, laughing.

"Sure thing!  Am I on?"

She considered him, smilingly.

"If you like," she said.

"Oh, I do like!  It’s awf’lly good of you, Diana....  Would you be
gracious enough to wear a sparkler?"

"Not yet, Scott."

"Oh, that’s all right—whenever you say."  He looked up at her, blushing.
"Do you mind if I kiss you?"

She looked at him for a second, then impulsively bent forward and kissed
him squarely.

"You nice boy," she said gently; "you nice, nice boy.  I wish the world
were fuller of your sort....  I don’t love you, Scott.... I don’t
suppose I shall....  But if you knew what I feel for you, I believe you
wouldn’t exchange it for any love I could ever give you.... Shall we go
into the billiard room?  I’m playing at Colonel Curmew’s table, and he’s
probably perfectly furious at being kept waiting."

She gave his hand a friendly pressure as he released it, laughed,
blushed, and turned away toward the billiard room, where the clamor was
already audible.

They parted at the door, where she met her sister in conversation with
Mr. Rivett.

"Diana," she said, "Mr. Rivett and I are going to town on the early
train.  You know he goes every week, and I’ve simply got to do some
shopping.  Will you come with us?"

Diana’s heart gave a bound.  To her, New York had become merely the
abiding place of Edgerton, and every mention of it started her pulses.

"Oh, do come, Di," urged her sister.  "If you’ll come, we’ll have Jim to
dinner at the Plaza.  All the theaters are open, too, and we can have a
jolly time."

"How on earth is Jack going to bear it?" asked Diana, laughing.

"Bear it?  Did you suppose Jack wasn’t coming?" asked Silvette so
naïvely that the corners of Mr. Rivett’s eyes cracked into wrinkles.

"All right, I’ll come," said Diana, with never a thought for Scott
Wallace; but, thinking of Edgerton, she had meant to go from the first.

As Silvette, on her future father-in-law’s arm, walked on toward the
drawing-room, Colonel Curmew appeared from the billiard room.

"Oh," said Diana, "I am so sorry to have kept you waiting.  I was
talking to my sister about going to town to-morrow."

"I want to see you before you go," said Curmew in a low voice.  "It
can’t be done now—they’re waiting for us, and Mrs. Wemyss is developing
a temper.  When can I see you?"

"Why, I don’t know," she said, smiling. "What have you to say to me that
cannot be said now?"

The colonel’s eyes popped, and he leered at her, not doubting her
coquetry.

"On the terrace after cards," he said, curling his mustache.  "Is that
understood?"

"Indeed, it is not, Colonel Curmew!" she said, amused.  "I shall retire
early, because I have an early train to catch."

The colonel’s face darkened.  There were limits to coquetry.

"When did you decide to go?"

"A few minutes ago."

"You knew I had something to say to you?"

"I knew nothing of the sort.  And what has it to do with my going to
town, anyway?"

The colonel had only a few moments to decide.

"How long will you be in town?"

"I don’t know."

"Where will you be?"

He wearied her, and to be rid of him she thoughtlessly gave him the
address at the Plaza.

"I’ll be in town for a day or two," he said, leering at her once more.

If she heard, she paid no heed, for she was already entering the
billiard room with a gay gesture and a smile for Wallace, who waved his
hand in reply, and looked volumes at her across the hubbub.




                             *CHAPTER XIV*

                            *DESUNT CÆTERA*


Silvette and Diana, in one of Mr. Rivett’s town limousines, had shopped
to their hearts’ satisfaction, inspected fashions for the coming winter
in hats and furs and gowns and various intimate affairs of flimsier
fabric, had whirled away down town to lunch with Mr. Rivett and Mr.
Dineen at the Iron and Steel Club, then whirled up town again to resume
the delicious exploration of those glittering Fifth Avenue shops which
line that thoroughfare from Madison Square to the gilded battle horse
and its rider in two almost unbroken ranks.

In that magic land, where trousseaux are assembled and garnered by
pretty brides to be, Silvette lingered, fascinated; but her rapid,
intelligent survey was only preliminary as yet. She and Diana were
merely en vidette; official inspection and an advance in force would
follow later.

But, oh, the jewels and the furs and the lovely laces and the heavenly
hats!

Every shop was now in full swing toward the culminating, scintillating
transformation of Christmas; the avenue was crowded with flashing
automobiles and carriages, the florists’ windows were beautiful, the
sidewalks crowded.

Men sold violets everywhere at street corners or offered enormous,
orange-tinted chrysanthemums nodding on long stems; giant policemen on
foot kept busy ward at every crossing; superb mounted police calmly
stemmed the twin torrents and, with lifted hand, quieted the maelstrom.
Far to the south, in snowy magnificence against the sky, the huge marble
tower brooded under its golden lantern above the city’s roar; northward
the naked trees of the park turned ruddy and golden in the eye of the
level sun.

And all of it the two young girls beheld, and part of it they
were—sometimes afoot in the throng, sometimes in their limousine,
looking out with enchanted eyes upon all this magic—magic only, alas! to
the unspoiled eyes of youth.

From time to time Silvette had stopped at any convenient place to
telephone Edgerton, calling him up at his various points of possible
contact.  She had telegraphed him the morning that they left Adriutha,
which was the day before, but, as time passed, it became evident that he
had not yet received the telegram.

Some days ago he had gone to Pittsburg at Mr. Dineen’s suggestion.  On
his way back he was to stop at Philadelphia and Jersey City.

Rivett said at luncheon that he’d probably return to his rooms before
dining, and find their telegram in time to join them at the Plaza for
dinner.

But he didn’t come, nor did any word arrive from him; and Silvette and
Jack went off to the New Theater to see "The Thunderbolt" matchlessly
staged and acted in a matchless theater; and Rivett offered to take
Diana anywhere.

But the girl was sick at heart under her smiling, feverish gayety, and
the brilliant darkness of the streets seemed to mock her as she looked
out into them.

Also, there was a chance that Edgerton might arrive late and telephone
to somebody—perhaps even to her.

It was merely a chance, but her chances were few these days, and she
durst not pass one by, no matter how unlikely it looked.

So she thanked Mr. Rivett, and preferred her room in the pretty suite to
which he had invited Silvette and herself; and there she sat in her
silken dinner gown, sunk into the velvety depths of a chair, watching
the city lights from the window, waiting, listening—always listening
with a hope that died and lived with her unquiet breathing; fading,
flowering, waxing, waning, dead and alive between two heartbeats—the
hope forever new—the only living thing which cannot die while the sad
world endures.

Below her, far below, the lights of motors ran swiftly like passing
meteors; the lights of carriages and hansoms streamed to and fro,
yellower and slower; the lighted windows of street cars glided across
her line of vision in endless, level repetition.

To the west the gemmed façade of the New Theater sparkled above the
trees; northward the lighted streets spread away like linked jewels
under the winter stars.

Into the high silence where she lay and looked out into the night, only
a faint rumor of the city mounted from below; a tongue of flame rustled
on the hearth; the clock ticked.

Suddenly, silence was shattered in her ears; she sprang to her feet, one
hand against her heart, her stunned senses deafened by the clamor of the
telephone.

The next instant she was at the receiver—the receiver pressed
convulsively to her ear.

"Yes," she said faintly.

*      *      *      *      *      *

"Yes; this is Miss Tennant."

*      *      *      *      *      *

"Yes—Diana Tennant.  Who is it?"

*      *      *      *      *      *

"Yes; I will hold the wire."

She rested against the shelf, relaxing from the tension; then, rigid,
electrified:

"Yes!  Is that you, Jim?"

"Of course!" he replied.  "Are you at the Plaza?"

"Yes—all alone.  Oh, Jim!  I am so glad to hear your voice!"

"It’s bully of you to say it.  I’m delighted to hear yours.  I have just
come in and found Silvette’s telegram on my desk.  Shall I come around?"

"Will you?"

She could hear him laughing, then:

"Watch me," he said, "if the dust doesn’t obscure the spectacle, I’ll be
with you in five minutes.  Is that right, Diana?"

"It is perfectly right."

As though dazed she hung up the receiver in its nickel wishbone, and
began walking aimlessly up and down the room trying to collect her wits
and calm her senses.  Outwardly composed, inwardly facing chaos, she
threw open the window and turned her face to the coolness of the winter
stars.

Then behind her the telephone sounded again.  It was only the
announcement of his arrival, and she closed the door of her room and
went into the pretty parlor, where a maid was already turning on the
electric lights.

His ring sounded; the maid admitted him to the outer hall, took his hat
and coat, and ushered him in.  Diana rose to receive him with smiling
composure as the maid retired to the bedroom.

"This is very prompt of you, Jim—-and promptness is the most subtle of
flatteries.... How thin and white you look! ... Are you perfectly well?"

"Perfectly.  I need not ask that question of you, Rose of the
Berkshires!"

"Do I really look well?"

"Flawless and dewy fresh—a trifle slim, perhaps.  Don’t they keep you in
pheasants?"

"They do, kind sir.  It’s fashion, not slenderness, you behold.  Never
mind how it’s accomplished.  But, Jim, you don’t look well. Are they
working you to death?"

"Not so you’d notice my decease," he said laughingly.  "I’m in the game,
up to the neck, and swimming strongly.  It’s a fine game, Diana.  No
doubt generations of Edgertons on high look down on me and sing in
unison the Anvil Chorus.  It’s a great game—this iron one.  The iron is
in me; I’m lanced through and through—it’s flowing in my blood; it’s in
my bones.  Iron! iron!  There is nothing to compare with it in all the
world, Diana."

"Let me see your arm, Jim."

"Shall I take off my coat and——"

"No; I’ll just feel it—very gently."

"It’s mended.  Squeeze all you please."

"Was it here?"

"Higher."

"Here?"

"Lower."

"Here?"

"Higher."

"Jim, I believe you’re just letting me fondle your old arm and waste
oceans of sympathy on it!"

They laughed; he showed her where the fracture had occurred.  She,
gravely curious, explored his sleeve with timid fingers.

"Doesn’t hurt at all, Jim?"

"Damp weather," he said briefly.  "How long do you remain in town,
Diana?"

"Only over to-morrow."

"Good Lord!  Is that all?"

"We’ve been here two days."

"And I was in Pittsburg, dammit!"

"You certainly were, my friend; but, could I help that?  I did my best.
We wired you, and we have telephoned you steadily every minute since
we’ve been here....  Jim, do you know, in the excitement we’ve quite
forgotten to sit down."

They laughed again; he placed a chair for her, but she chose the lounge,
and made a place for him beside her.  Within the half hour a physical
transformation had changed her to a flushed and radiant young girl, shy
and audacious by turns, brilliant of eye and lip, and charmingly alert
to his every word and smile.  From her shoulders the robe of care seemed
to have fallen, shriveling, as it fell, in the soft fire of her youth
and spring-tide, leaving visible only her fresh, unstained, and winsome
beauty.

She told him all that had occurred at Adriutha—all except what had
happened between herself and young Wallace; and for the time she really
forgot that such a man existed.

Then she asked eager questions; and he laid open the first pages of his
new life before her proud, happy, sympathetic eyes, tracing it paragraph
by paragraph for her since he had entered into man’s estate, and had put
away childish things.

The clock ticked; the tongue of flame flickered low among its ashes.
They talked on, heeding nothing except each other.

"I thought you and Silvette were to use the apartment when you come to
town.  Your room is ready; but here you are in white marble and palatial
grandeur overlooking the park.  Explain those phenomena, pretty maid!"

"We’re guests of Mr. Rivett, Jim.  Otherwise, no palatial grandeur for
us.  We wanted to go to the studio apartment; I was perfectly crazy to
go.  But we saw it would hurt Mr. Rivett’s feelings, and that he had set
his kind old heart on entertaining us....  Oh, Jim, I don’t want to seem
ungrateful, but if older people only knew that the less they entertain
the young, the better they are beloved!"

"That’s a rather sad truth, but it’s the truth," he said.  "Rivett
handed me one black eye, too, bless his heart.  I had so counted on your
being in the apartment....  Well, you’ll come sometime—"  He hesitated,
looked at her, troubled.

"When is Silvette to be married?"

"They think in the spring; they haven’t settled it yet."

"Then you and she will be in the apartment this winter?"

"If you want us," she said almost shyly.

"Want you!  It will be paradise!  I’ll make my salary go as far as it
will."

"Indeed, you won’t!  Silvette and I chip in pro rata, or we refuse
your marble halls!"

"I’m afraid I’ll have to agree, Japonette. My poverty, not my will,
consents!"

After a moment she said: "It is a long while since you have called me
that."

"What?"

