shaking hands, while Westguard and the hirsute young man sang "Comrades"
with much feeling.
Quarren, still unrecognised, edged his way out and rejoined Dankmere on
the front stoop. Neither made any comment on the proceedings.
Later the derelicts, moodily replete, shuffled forth into the night,
herded lovingly by De Groot, still shaking hands.
From the corner of the street opposite, Quarren and Dankmere observed
their departure, and, later, they beheld De Groot and Mrs. Caldera slip
around the block and discreetly disappear into a 1912 touring-car with
silver mountings and two men in livery on the box.
Westguard, truer to his principles, took a tram and Quarren and the Earl
returned to their gallery with mixed emotions, and opened every window
top and bottom.
"It's all right in its way, I suppose," said Quarren. "Probably De Groot
means well, but there's no conversation possible between a man who has
just dined rather heavily, and a man who has no chance of dining at
all."
"Like preaching Christ to the poor from a Fifth Avenue pulpit," said
Dankmere, vaguely.
"How do you mean?"
"A church on a side street would seem to serve the purpose. And the poor
need the difference."
"I don't know about those matters."
"No; I don't either. It's easy, cheap, and popular to knock the
clergy.... Still, somehow or other, I can't seem to forget that the
disciples were poor--and it bothers me a lot, Quarren."
Quarren said: "Haven't you and I enough to worry us concerning our own
morals?"
Dankmere, who had been closing up and piling together the Undertaker's
camp-chairs, looked around at the younger man.
"What did you say?" he asked.
"I said that probably you and I would find no time left to criticise
either De Groot or the clergy, if we used our leisure in
self-examination."
His lordship went on piling up chairs. When he finished he started
wandering around, hands in his pockets. Then he turned out all the
electric lamps, drew the bay-window curtains wide so that the silvery
radiance from the arc-light opposite made the darkness dimly lustrous.
A little breeze stirred the hair on Quarren's forehead; Dankmere dropped
into the depths of an armchair near him. For a while they sat together
in darkness and silence, then the Englishman said abruptly:
"You've been very kind to me."
Quarren glanced up surprised.
"Why not?"
"Because nobody else has any decent words to say to me or of me."
Quarren, amused, said: "How do you know that I have, Dankmere?"
"A man knows some things. For example, most people take me for an
ass--they don't tell me so but I know it. And if they don't take me for
an ass they assume that I'm something worse--because I have a title of
sorts, no money, an inclination for the stage and the people who make a
living out of it."
"Also," Quarren reminded him, "you are looking for a wealthy wife."
"God bless my soul! Am I the only chap in America who happens to be
doing that?"
"No; but you're doing it conspicuously."
"You mean I'm honest about it?"
Quarren laughed: "Anyway perhaps that's one reason why I like you. At
first I also thought it was merely stupidity."
Dankmere crossed his short legs and lighted his pipe:
"The majority of your better people have managed not to know me. I've
met a lot of men of sorts, but they draw the line across their home
thresholds--most of them. Is it the taint of vaudeville that their wives
sniff at, or my rather celebrated indigence?"
"Both, Dankmere--and then some."
"Oh, I see. Many thanks for telling me. I take it you mean that it was
my first wife they shy at."
Quarren remained silent.
"She was a bar-maid," remarked the Earl. "We were quite happy--until she
died."
Quarren made a slight motion of comprehension.
"Of course my marrying her damned us both," observed the Earl.
"Of course."
"Quite so. People would have stood for anything else.... But she
wouldn't--you may think it odd.... And I was in love--so there you are."
For a while they smoked in the semi-darkness without exchanging further
speech; and finally Dankmere knocked out his pipe, pocketed it, and put
on his hat.
"You know," he said, "I'm not really an ass. My tastes and my caste
don't happen to coincide--that's all, Quarren."
They walked together to the front stoop.
"When do we open shop?" asked the Earl, briskly.
"As soon as I get the reports from our experts."
"Won't business be dead all summer?"
"We may do some business with agents and dealers."
"I see. You and I are to alternate as salesmen?"
"For a while. When things start I want to rent the basement and open a
department for repairing, relining and cleaning; and I'd like to be
able to do some of the work myself."
"You?"
"Surely. It interests me immensely."
"You're welcome I'm sure," said Dankmere drily. "But who's to keep the
books and attend to correspondence?"
"We'll get somebody. A young woman, who says she is well recommended,
advertised in Thursday's papers, and I wrote her from Witch-Hollow to
come around Sunday morning."
"That's to-morrow."
Quarren nodded.
So Dankmere trotted jauntily away into the night, and Quarren locked the
gallery and went to bed, certain that he was destined to dream of
Strelsa. But the sleek, narrow head and slightly protruding eyes of
Langly Sprowl was the only vision that peered cautiously at him through
his sleep.
The heated silence of a Sunday morning in June awoke him from a somewhat
restless night. Bathed and shaved, he crept forth limply to breakfast at
the Founders' Club where he still retained a membership. There was not a
soul there excepting himself and the servants--scarcely a person on the
avenues and cross-streets which he traversed going and coming, only one
or two old men selling Sunday papers at street-stands, an old hag
gleaning in the gutters, and the sparrows.
Clothing was a burden. He had some pongee garments which he put on,
installed himself in the gallery with a Sunday paper, an iced lime
julep, and a cigarette, and awaited the event of the young lady who
had advertised that she knew all about book-keeping, stenography,
and typewriting, and could prove it.
[Illustration: "She came about noon--a pale young girl, very slim in her
limp black gown."]
She came about noon--a pale young girl, very slim in her limp black
gown, and, at Quarren's invitation, seated herself at the newly
purchased desk of the firm.
Here, at his request she took a page or two of dictation from him and
typed it rapidly and accurately.
She had her own system of book-keeping which she explained to the young
man who seemed to think it satisfactory. Then he asked her what salary
she expected, and she told him, timidly.
"All right," he said with a smile, "if it suits you it certainly suits
me. Will you begin to-morrow?"
"Whenever you wish, Mr. Quarren."
"Well, there won't be very much to do for a while," he said laughingly,
"except to sit at that desk and look ornamental."
She flushed, then smiled and thanked him for giving her the position,
adding with another blush that she would do her best.
"Your best," he said amiably, "will probably be exactly what we
require.... Did you bring any letters?"
She hesitated: "One," she said gravely. She searched in her reticule,
found it, and handed it to Quarren who read it in silence, then returned
it to her.
"You were stenographer in Mr. Sprowl's private office?"
"Yes."
"This letter isn't signed by Mr. Sprowl."
"No, by Mr. Kyte, his private secretary."
"It seems you were there only six months."
"Six months."
"And before that where were you?"
"At home."
"Oh; Mr. Sprowl was your first employer!"
"Yes."
"Why did you leave?"
The girl hesitated so long that he thought she had not understood, and
was about to repeat the question when something in her pallor and in her
uplifted eyes checked him.
"I don't know why I was sent away," she said in a colourless voice.
He thought for a while, then, carelessly: "I take it that there was
nothing irregular in your conduct?"
"No."
"You'd tell me if there was, wouldn't you?"
She lifted her dark eyes to his. "Yes," she said.
How much of an expert he was at judging faces he did not know, but he
was perfectly satisfied with himself when she took her leave.
And when Dankmere came in after luncheon he said:
"I've engaged a book-keeper. Her name is Jessie Vining. She's evidently
unhappy, poor, underfed, and the prettiest thing you ever saw out of a
business college. So, being unhappy, poor, underfed and pretty, I take
it that she's all to the good."
"It's a generous world of men," said Dankmere--"so I guess she is
good."
"I'm sure of it. She was Sprowl's private stenographer--and he sent her
away.... There are three reasons why he might have dismissed her. I've
taken my choice of them."
"Did he give her a letter?"
"No."
"Oh. Then I've taken my choice, too."
"Kyte ventured to give her a letter," said Quarren. "I've heard that
Kyte could be decent sometimes."
"I see."
Nothing further was said about the new book-keeper. His lordship went
into the back parlour and played the piano until satiated; then mixed
himself a lime julep.
That afternoon they went over the reports of the experts very carefully.
From these reports and his own conclusions Quarren drafted a catalogue
while Dankmere went about sticking adhesive labels on the frames, all
numbered. And, as he trotted blithely about his work, he talked to
himself and to the pictures:
"Here's number nine for you, old lady! If I'd had a face like that I'd
have killed the artist who transferred it to canvas!... Number sixteen
for you there in your armour! Somebody in Springfield will buy you for
an ancestor and that's what will happen to you.... And you, too, in a
bag-wig!--you'll be some rich Yankee's ancestor before you know it!
That's the way you'll end, my smirking friend.... Hello! Tiens! In
Gottes namen--whom have we here? Why, it's Venus!... And hot weather is
no excuse for going about that way!... Listen to this, Quarren, for an
impromptu patter-song--
    "'Venus, dear, you ought to know
      What the proper caper is--
    Even Eve, who wasn't slow,
      Robbed the neighbours' graperies!
    Even Mænads on the go,
    Fat Bacchantes in a row--
    Even ladies in a show
      Wear some threads of naperies!
    Through the heavens planet-strewn
      Where a shred of vapour is
    Quickly clothes herself the Moon!
    Get you to a modiste soon
      Where the tissue-paper is,
    Cut in fashions fit for June--
      Wear 'em, dear, for draperies----'"
"Good heavens!" protested Quarren--"how long can you run on like
that?"
"Years and years, my dear fellow. It's in me--born in me! Can you beat
it? Though I appear to be a peer appearance is a liar; cast for a part
apart from caste, departing I climb higher toward the boards to bore the
hordes and lord it, sock and buskin dispensing sweetness, art, and light
as per our old friend Ruskin----"
"Dankmere!"
"Heaven-born?"
"Stop!"
"I remain put.... What number do I stick on this gentleman with streaky
features?"
"Eighteen. That's a Franz Hals."
"Really?"
"Yes; the records are all here, and the experts agree."
His lordship got down nimbly from the step-ladder and came over to the
desk:
"Young sir," he said, "how much is that picture worth?"
"All we can get for it. It's not a very good example."
"Are you going to tell people that?"
"If they ask me," said Quarren, smiling.
"What price are you going to put on it?"
"Ten thousand."
"And do you think any art-smitten ass will pay that sum for a thing like
that?"
"I think so. If it were only a decent example I'd ask ten times
that--and probably get it in the end."
Dankmere inspected the picture more respectfully for a few moments, then
pasted a label on an exquisite head by Greuze.
"She's a peach," he said. "What price is going to waft her from my
roof-tree?"
"The experts say it's not a Greuze but a contemporary copy. And there's
no pedigree, either."
"Oh," said the Earl blankly, "is that your opinion, too?"
"I haven't any yet. But there's no such picture by Greuze extant."
"You don't think it a copy?"
"I'm inclined not to. Under that thick blackish-yellow varnish I believe
I'll find the pearl and rose texture of old Greuze himself. In the
meantime it's not for sale."
"I see. And this battle-scene?"
"Wouverman's--ruined by restoring. It's not worth much."
"And this Virgin?"
"Pure as the Virgin Herself--not a mark--flawless. It's by 'The Master
of the Death of Mary.' Isn't it a beauty? Do you notice St. John holding
the three cherries and the Christ-child caressing the goldfinch? Did you
ever see such colour?"
"It's--er--pretty," said his lordship.
And so during the entire afternoon they compiled the price-list and
catalogue, marking copies for what they were, noting such pictures as
had been ruined by restoring or repainted so completely as to almost
obliterate the last original brush stroke. Also Quarren reserved for his
own investigations such canvases as he doubted or of which he had
hopes--a number that under their crocked, battered, darkened or
discoloured surfaces hinted of by-gone glories that might still be
living and only imprisoned beneath the thick opacity of dust, soot,
varnish, and the repainting of many years ago.
And that night he went to bed happier than he had ever been in all his
life--unless his moments with Strelsa Leeds might be termed happy ones.
       *       *       *       *       *
Monday morning brought, among other things, a cloudless sun, and little
Miss Vining quite as spotless and radiant; and within ten minutes the
click of the typewriter made the silent picture-plastered rooms almost
gay.
In shirtwaist and cuffs she took her place behind the desk with a sort
of silent decision which seemed at once to invest her with suzerainty
over all that corner of the room; and Dankmere coming in a little later,
whistling merrily and twirling his walking-stick, sheered off
instinctively on his breezy progress through the rooms, skirting Jessie
Vining's domain as though her private ensign flew above it and
earthworks, cannon and trespass notices flanked her corner on every
side.
In the back parlour he said to Quarren: "So that is the girl?"
"It sure is."
"God bless my soul! she acts as though she had just bought in the whole
place."
"What's she doing?"
"Just sitting there," admitted Dankmere.
He seemed to have lost his spirits. Once, certain that he was unobserved
except by Quarren, he ventured to balance his stick on his chin, but it
was a half-hearted performance; and when he tossed up his straw hat and
attempted to catch it on his head, he missed, and the corrugated brim
sustained a dent.
A number of people called that morning, quiet, well-dressed,
cautious-eyed, soft-spoken gentlemen who moved about noiselessly over
the carpets and, on encountering one another, nodded with silent
familiarity and smiles scarcely perceptible.
They seemed to require no information concerning the pictures which they
swept with glances almost careless on their first rounds of the rooms.
But the first leisurely tour always resulted in a second where one or
two pictures seemed to claim their closer scrutiny.
Now and then one of these gentlemen would screw a jeweller's glass into
his eye and remain a few minutes nose almost touching a canvas. Several
used the large reading-glass lying on a side table. Before they departed
all glanced over the incomplete scale of prices which Jessie Vining had
typed and bound in blue covers; but one and all took their leave in
amiable silence, saying a non-committal word or two to Quarren in
pleasantly modulated voices and passing Jessie's desk with a grave
inclination of gravely preoccupied faces.
When the last leisurely lingerer had taken his leave Quarren said to
Jessie Vining:
"Those are representatives of various first-class dealers--confidential
buyers, sons--even dealers themselves--like that handsome gray-haired
young-looking man who is Max Von Ebers, head of that great house."
"But they didn't buy one single thing!" said Jessie.
Quarren laughed: "People don't buy off-hand. Our triumph is to get them
here at all. I wrote to each of them personally."
       *       *       *       *       *
Nobody else came for a long while; then one or two of the lesser dealers
appeared, and now and then a man who might be an agent or a prowling and
wealthy amateur or perhaps one of those curious haunters of all art
marts who never buy but who never miss assisting at all inaugurations in
person--like an ubiquitous and silent dog who turns up wherever more
than two people assemble with any purpose in view--or without any.
During the forenoon and early afternoon several women came into the
galleries; and they seemed to be a little different from ordinary women,
although it would be hard to say wherein they were different except in
one instance--a tall, darkly handsome girl whose jewellery was as
conspicuously oriental as her brilliant colour.
Later Quarren told Jessie Vining that they were expert buyers on
commission or brokers having clients among those very wealthy people who
bought pictures now and then because it was fashionable to do so. Also,
these same women-brokers represented a number of those unhappy old
families who, incognito, were being forced by straitened circumstances
to part secretly with heirlooms--family plate, portraits, miniatures,
furniture--even with the antique mirrors on the walls and the very
fire-dogs on the hearth amid the ashes of a burnt-out race almost
extinct.
A few Jews came--representing the extreme types of the most wonderful
race of people in the world--one tall, handsome, immaculate young man
whose cultivated accent, charming manners, and quiet bearing challenged
exception--and one or two representing the other extreme, loud,
restless, aggressive, and as impertinent as they dared be, discussing
the canvases in noisy voices and with callous manners verging always on
the offensive.
These evinced a disposition for cash deals and bargain-wrangling,
discouraged good-naturedly by Quarren who referred them to the
catalogue; and presently they took themselves off.
Dankmere sidled up to Quarren rather timidly toward the close of the
afternoon.
"I don't see what bally good I am in this business," he said. "I don't
mean to shirk, Quarren, but there doesn't seem to be anything for me to
do. I think that all these beggars spot me for an ignoramus the moment
they lay eyes on me, and the whole thing falls on you."
Quarren said laughingly: "Well, didn't you furnish the stock?"
"We ought to go halves," muttered Dankmere, shyly skirting Jessie
Vining's domain where she was writing letters with the Social Register
at her elbow.
       *       *       *       *       *
The last days of June and the first of July were repetitions in a
measure of the opening day at the Dankmere Galleries; people came and
were received and entertained by Quarren; Dankmere sat about in various
chairs or retired furtively to the backyard to smoke at intervals;
Jessie Vining with more colour in her pale, oval face, ruled her corner
of the room in a sort of sweet and silent dignity.
Dankmere, who, innately, possessed the effrontery of a born comedian,
for some reason utterly unknown to himself, was inclined to be afraid of
her--afraid of the clear brown eyes indifferently lifted to his when he
entered--afraid of the quiet "Good-morning, Lord Dankmere," with which
she responded to his morning greeting--afraid of her cool skilful little
hands busy with pencil, pen, or lettered key--afraid of everything about
her from her rippling brown hair and snowy collar to the tips of her
little tan shoes--even afraid of the back of her head when it presented
only a slender neck and two little rosy, close-set ears. But he didn't
mention his state of abasement to Quarren.
A curious thing occurred, too: Jessie had evidently been gay on Sunday;
and, Monday noon, while out for lunch, she had left on her desk two
Coney Island postal cards decorated with her own photograph. When she
returned, one card had vanished; and she searched quietly but thoroughly
before she left for home that evening, but she did not find the card.
But she said nothing about it.
The dreadful part of the affair was that it was theft--the Earl of
Dankmere's first crime.
Why he had taken it he did not know. The awful impulse of kleptomania
alone seemed to explain but scarcely palliate his first offence against
society.
It was only after he realised that the picture and Jessie Vining vaguely
resembled his dead Countess that his lordship began to understand why he
had committed a felony before he actually knew what he was doing.
And one day when Quarren was still out for lunch and Jessie had returned
to her correspondence, the terrified Earl suddenly appeared before her
holding out the photograph: and she took it, astonished, her lifted eyes
mutely inquiring concerning the inwardness of this extraordinary
episode.
But Dankmere merely fled to the backyard and remained there all the
afternoon smoking his head off; and it was several days before Jessie
had an opportunity to find herself alone in his vicinity and to ask him
with almost perfect self-possession where he had found the photograph.
"I stole it," said Dankmere, turning bright red to his ear-tips.
"All she could think of to say was: 'Why?'
"It resembles my wife. So do you."
"Really," she said coldly.
       *       *       *       *       *
Several days later she learned by the skilfully careless questioning of
Quarren that the Countess of Dankmere had not existed on earth for the
last ten years.
This news extenuated the Earl's guilt in her eyes to a degree which
permitted a slight emotion resembling pity to pervade her. And one day
she said to him, casually pleasant--"Would you care for that post-card,
Lord Dankmere? If it resembles your wife I would be very glad to return
it to you."
Dankmere, painfully red again, thanked her so nicely that the slight,
instinctive distrust and aversion which, in the beginning, she had
entertained for his lordship, suddenly disappeared so entirely that it
surprised her when she had leisure to think it over afterward.
So she gave him the post-card, and next day she found a rose in a glass
of water on her desk; and that ended the incident for them both except
that Dankmere was shyer of her than ever and she was beginning to
realise that his aloof and expressionless deportment was due to
shyness--which seemed to be inexplicable because otherwise timidity was
scarcely the word to characterise his lively little lordship.
Once, looking out of the rear windows, through the lace curtains she saw
the Earl of Dankmere in the backyard, gravely turning handsprings on the
grass while still smoking his pipe. Once, entering the gallery
unexpectedly, she discovered the Earl standing at the piano, playing a
rattling breakdown while his nimble little feet performed the same with
miraculous agility and professional precision. She withdrew to the front
door, hastily, and waited until the piano ceased from rumbling and the
Oxfords were at rest, then returned with heightened colour and a stifled
desire to laugh which she disguised under an absent-minded nod of
greeting.
Meanwhile one or two pictures had been sold to dealers--not important
ones--but the sales were significant enough to justify the leasing of
the basement. And here Quarren installed himself from morning to noon as
apprentice to an old Englishman who, before the failure of his eyesight,
had amassed a little fortune as surgeon, physician, and trained nurse to
old and decrepit pictures.
Not entirely unequipped in the beginning, Quarren now learned more about
his trade--the guarded secrets of mediums and solvents, the composition
of ancient and modern canvases, how old and modern colours were ground
and prepared, how mixed, how applied.
He learned how the old masters of the various schools of painting
prepared a canvas or panel--how the snowy "veil" was spread and dried,
how the under painting was executed in earth-red and bone-black, how the
glaze was used and why, what was the medium, what the varnish.
He learned about the "baths of sunlight," too--those clarifying
immersions practised so openly yet until recently not understood. He
comprehended the mechanics, physics, and simple chemistry of that
splendid, mysterious "inward glow" which seemed to slumber under the
colours of the old masters like the exquisite warmth in the heart of a
gem.
To him, little by little, was revealed the only real wonder of the old
masters--their astonishing honesty. He began to understand that, first
of all, they were self-respecting artisans, practising their trade of
making pictures and painting each picture as well as they knew how;
that, like other artisans, their pride was in knowing their trade, in a
mastery of their tools, and in executing commissions as honestly as they
knew how and leaving the "art" to take care of itself.
Also he learned--for he was obliged to learn in self-protection--the
tricks and deceptions and forgeries of the trade--all that was unworthy
about it, all its shabby disguises and imitations and crude artifices
and cunning falsehoods.
He examined old canvases painted over with old-new pictures and then
relined; canvases showing portions of original colour; old canvases and
panels repainted and artificially darkened and cleverly covered with
both paint and varnish cracks; canvases that almost defied detection by
needle-point or glass or thumb friction or solvent, so ingenious was
the forgery simulating age.
Every known adjunct was provided to carry out deception--genuinely old
canvases or panels, old stretchers really worm-eaten, aged frames of the
period, half-obliterated seals bearing sometimes even the cross-keys of
the Vatican. Even, in some cases, pretence that the pictures had been
cut from the frame and presumably stolen was carried out by a
knife-slashed and irregular ridge where the canvas had actually been so
cut and then sewed to a modern toile.
For forgery of art is as old as the Greeks and as new as to-day--the one
sinister art that perhaps will never become a lost art; and Quarren and
his aged mentor in the basement of the Dankmere Galleries discovered
more than enough frauds among the Dankmere family pictures showing how
the little Earl's forebears had once been gulled before his present
lordship lay in his cradle.
To Quarren the work was fascinating and, except for his increasing worry
over Strelsa Leeds, would have been all-absorbing to the degree of
happiness--or that interested contentment which passes for it on earth.
To see the dull encasing armour of varnish disappear from some ancient
masterpiece under the thumb, as the delicate thumb of the Orient
polishes lacquer; to dare a solvent when needed, timing its strength to
the second lest disaster tarnish forever the exquisite bloom of the
shrouded glazing; to cautiously explore for suspected signatures, to
brood and ponder over ancient records and alleged pedigrees; to compare
prints and mezzotints, photographs and engravings in search for
identities; to study threads of canvas, flakes of varnish, flinty
globules of paint under the microscope; to learn, little by little, the
technical manners and capricious mannerisms significant of the progress
periods of each dead master; to pore over endless volumes, monographs,
illustrated foreign catalogues of public and private collections--in
these things and through them happiness came to Quarren.
Never a summer sun rose over the streets of Ascalon arousing the
Philistine to another day of toil but it awoke Quarren to the subdued
excitement of another day. Eager, interested, content in his
self-respect, he went forth to a daily business which he cared about for
its own sake, and was fast learning to care about to the point of
infatuation.
He was never tired these days; but the summer heat and lack of air and
exercise made him rather thin and pale. Close work with the magnifying
glass had left his features slightly careworn, and had begun little
converging lines at the outer corners of his eyes. Only one line in his
face expressed anything less happy--the commencement of a short
perpendicular crease between his eyebrows. Anxious pondering over old
canvases was not deepening that faint signature of perplexity--or the
forerunner of Care's signs manual nervously etched from the wing of
either nostril.
CHAPTER XII
Since Quarren had left Witch-Hollow, he and Strelsa had exchanged
half-a-dozen letters of all sorts--gay, impersonal notes, sober epistles
reflecting more subdued moods, then letters fairly sparkling with high
spirits and the happy optimism of young people discovering that there is
more of good than evil in a world still really almost new to them. Then
there was a long letter of description and amusing narrative from her,
in which, here and there, she became almost sentimental over phases of
rural beauty; and he replied at equal length telling her about his new
shop-work in detail.
Suddenly, out of a clear sky, there came from her a short, dry, and
deliberate letter mentioning once more her critical worldly
circumstances and the necessity of confronting them promptly and with
intelligence and decision.
To which he answered vigorously, begging her to hold out--either fit
herself for employment--or throw her fortunes in with his and take the
chances.
"Rix dear," she answered, "don't you suppose I have thought of that? But
I can't do it. There is nothing left in me to go on with. I'm burnt
out--deadly tired, wanting nothing more than I shall have by marrying as
I must marry. For I shall have you, too, as I have always had you. You
said so, didn't you?
"What difference, then, does it make to you or me whether or not I am
married?
"If you were sufficiently equipped to take care of me, and if I married
you, I could not give you anything more than I have given already--I
would not wish to if I could. All that many other women consider part of
love--all that lesser side of it and of marriage I could not give to you
or to any man--could not endure; because it is not in me and never has
been. It is foreign to me, unpleasant, distasteful--even hateful.
"So as I can give you nothing more than I have given or ever shall give,
and as you have given me all you can--anyway all I care for in you--let
me feel free to seek my worldly salvation and find the quiet and rest
and surcease from anxiety which comes only under such circumstances.
"You won't think unkindly of me, will you, Rix? I don't know very much;
I amount to very little. What ideals I had are dead. Why should anybody
bother to agree or disagree with my very unaggressive opinions or
criticise harshly a life which has been spent mainly in troubling the
world as little as possible?
            *       *       *       *       *
"There are a number of people here--among them several friends of Jim
Wycherly, all of them aviation-mad. Jim took out the Stinger, smashed
the planes and got a fall which was not very serious. Lester Caldera did
the same thing to the Kent biplane except that he fell into the river
and Sir Charles and Chrysos, in the launch, fished him out--swearing,
they say.
"Vincent Wier made a fine flight in his Delatour Dragon, sailing 'round
and 'round like a big hawk for a quarter of an hour, but the wind came
up and he couldn't land, and he finally came down thirty miles north of
us in a swamp.
"Langly took me for a short flight in his Owlet No. 3--only two miles
and not very high, but the sensation was simply horrid. I never even
cared for motoring, you see, so the experience left me most
unenthusiastic, greatly to Langly's disgust. Really, all I care for is a
decently gaited horse--and I prefer to walk him half the time. There is
nothing speedy about me, Rix. If I ever had the inclination it's gone
now.
"To the evident displeasure of Sir Charles, Langly took up Chrysos Lacy;
and the child adored it. I believe Sir Charles said something cutting to
Langly in his quiet and dry way which has, apparently, infuriated my
to-be-affianced, for he never goes near Sir Charles, now, and that
cold-eyed gentleman completely ignores him. Which is not very
agreeable for me.
"Oh, Rix, there seems to be so many misunderstandings in this
exceedingly small world of ours--rows innumerable, heartburns,
recriminations, quarrels secret and open, and endless misunderstandings.
"Please don't let any come between us, will you? Somehow, lately, I find
myself looking on you as a distant but solid and almost peaceful refuge
for my harried thoughts. And I'm so very, very tired of being hunted.
                                 "STRELSA."
"If they hunt you too hard," he wrote to Strelsa, "the gateway of my
friendship is open to you always: remember that, now and in the days to
come.
"What you have written leaves me with nothing to answer except this. To
all it is given to endure according to their strength; beyond it no one
can strive; but short of its limits it's a shame to show
faint-heartedness.
"About the man you are determined to marry I have no further word to
say. You know in what repute he is held in your world, and you believe
that its censure is unjust. There is good in every man, perhaps, and
perhaps the good in this man may show itself only in response to the
better qualities in you.
"Somehow, without trying, you almost instantly evoke the better
qualities in me. You changed my entire life; do you know it? I myself
scarcely comprehended why. Perhaps the negative sweetness in you
concentrated and brought out the positive strength so long dormant in
me. All I know clearly is that you came into my life and found a fool
wasting it, capering about in a costume half livery, half motley. My
ambition was limited to my cap and bells; my aspirations never reached
beyond the tip of my bauble. Then I saw you--and, all by themselves, my
rags of motley fell from me, and something resembling a man stepped
clear of them.
"I am trying to make out of myself all that there is in me to develop.
It is not much--scarcely more than the ability to earn a living.
"I have come to care for nothing more than the right to look this sunny
world straight in the face. Until I knew you I had scarcely seen it
except through artificial light--scarce heard its voice; for the
laughter of your world and the jingle of my cap and bells drowned it in
my ass's ears.
"I could tell you--for in dark moments I often believe it--that there is
only one thing that counts in the world--one thing worth having, worth
giving--love!
"But in my heart I know it is not so; and the romancers are mistaken;
and so is the heart denied.
"Better and worth more than love of man or woman is the mind's silent
approval--whether given in tranquillity or accorded in dumb anguish.
"Strelsa dear, I shall always care for you; but I have discovered that
love is another matter--higher or lower as you will--but different. And
I do not think I shall be able to love the girl who does what you are
decided to do. And that does not mean that I criticise you or blame you,
or that my sympathy, affection, interest, in you will be less. On the
contrary all these emotions may become keener; only one little part will
die out, and that without changing the rest--merely that mysterious,
curious, elusive and illogical atom in the unstable molecule, which we
call love--and which, when separated, leaves the molecule changed only
in name. We call it friendship, then.
"And this is, I think, what you would most desire. So when you do what
you have determined to do, I will really become toward you what you
are--and have always been--toward me. And could either of us ask for
more?
"Only--forgive me--I wish it had been Sir Charles--or almost any other
man. But that is for your decision. Strelsa governs and alone is
responsible to Strelsa.
"Meanwhile do not doubt my affection--do not fear unkindness, judgment,
or criticism. I wish I were what you cared for most in the world--after
the approval of your own mind. I wish you cared for me not only as you
do but with all that has never been aroused in you. For without that I
am helpless to fight for you.
"So, in your own way, you will live life through, knowing that in me you
will always have an unchanged friend--even though the lover died when
you became a wife. Is all clear between us now?
            *       *       *       *       *
"If you are ever in town, or passing through to Newport or Bar Harbour,
stop and inspect our gallery.
"It is really quite pretty and some of the pictures are excellent. You
should see it now--sunlight slanting in through the dusty bay-window,
Dankmere at a long polished table doing his level best to assemble
certain old prints out of a portfolio containing nearly a thousand;
pretty little Miss Vining, pencil in hand, checking off at her desk the
reference books we require in our eternal hunt for information; I below
stairs in overalls if you please, paint and varnish stained, a
jeweller's glass screwed into my left eye, examining an ancient panel
which I strongly hope may have been the work of a gentleman named
Bronzino--for its mate is almost certainly the man in armour in the
Metropolitan Museum.
"Strelsa, it is the most exciting business I ever dreamed of. And the
beauty of it is that it leads out into everything--stretches a
thousand sensitive tentacles which grasp at knowledge of beauty
everywhere--whether it lie in the sombre splendour of the tapestries of
Bayeux, of Italy, of Flanders; or deep in the woven magnificence of some
dead Sultan's palace rug; or in the beauty of the work of silversmiths,
goldsmiths, of sculptors in ivory or in wood long dead; or in the
untinted marbles of the immortal masters.
"Never before did I understand how indissolubly all arts are linked, how
closely and eternally knit together in the vast fabric fashioned by man
from the beginning of time, and in the cryptograms of which lie buried
all that man has ever thought and hoped.
            *       *       *       *       *
"My cat, Daisy, recently presented the Dankmere Galleries with five
squeaking kittens of assorted colour and design. Their eyes are now
open.
"Poor Daisy! It seems only yesterday when, calmly purring on my knee,
she heard for the first time in her innocent life a gentleman cat begin
an intermezzo on the back fence.
"Never before had Daisy heard such amazing language: she rose,
astounded, listening; then, giving me one wild glance, fled under the
piano. I shied an empty bottle at the moon-lit minstrel; and I supposed
that Daisy approved. But man supposes and cat proposes and--Daisy's
kittens are certainly ornamental. Dankmere carries one in each pocket,
Daisy trotting at his heels with an occasional little exclamation of
solicitude and pride.
"Really we're a funny lot here in the Dankmere Galleries--not
superficially business-like perhaps, for we close at five and have tea
in the extension, Dankmere, Miss Vining, I, Daisy, and her young
ones--Daisy and the latter taking their nourishment together in a basket
which Miss Vining has lined with blue silk.
"In the evenings sometimes Miss Vining remains and dines with Dankmere
and myself at some near restaurant; and after dinner Karl Westguard
comes in and reads the most recent chapter of his novel--or perhaps
Dankmere plays and sings old-time songs for us--or, if the heat makes us
feel particularly futile, I perform some of those highly intellectual
tricks which once made me acceptable among people I now seldom or
never see.
[Illustration: "'In the evenings sometimes Miss Vining remains and dines
with Dankmere and myself at some near restaurant.'"]
"Miss Vining, as I have already told you in other letters, is a sweet,
sincere girl with no pretence to anything out of the ordinary yet
blessed with a delicate sense of honour and incidentally of humour.
"She is quite alone in the world, and, now that she has made up her mind
about Dankmere and me I can see that she shyly enjoys our including her
in our harmless informalities.
"Westguard is immensely interested in her as a 'type,' and he informs me
that he is 'studying' her. Which is more or less bosh; but Karl loves to
take himself seriously.
"Nobody you know has been to see us. It may be because your world is out
of town, but I'm beginning to believe that the Dankmere Galleries need
expect no patronage from that same world. Friendship usually fights shy
of the frontiers of business. Old acquaintanceship is forgot very
quickly when one side or the other has anything to sell. Only those
thrifty imitations of friends venture near in quest of special
privilege; and not getting it, go, never to return. Ubi amici, ibi
opes!
            *       *       *       *       *
"When you pass through this furnace of Ascalon called New York will you
stop among the Philistines long enough to take a cup of tea with
us?--I'll show you the pictures; Dankmere will play 'Shannon Water' for
you; Miss Vining will talk pretty platitudes to you, Daisy will purr for
you, and the painted eyes of Dankmere's ancestors will look down
approvingly at you from the wall; and all our little world will know
that the loveliest and best of all the greater world is breaking bread
with us under our roof, and that one for once, unlike man's dealings
with your celestial sisters, our entertainment of you will not be wholly
unawares.
                                 "R. S. QUARREN."
The basement workshop was aromatic with the odours of solvents, mediums,
and varnishes when he returned from posting his letter to Strelsa. His
old English mentor had departed for good, leaving him to go forward
alone in his profession.
And now, as he stood there, looking out into the sunny backyard, for the
first time he felt the silence and isolation of the place, and his own
loneliness. Doubt crept in whispering the uselessness of working, of
saving, of self-denial, of laying by anything for a future that already
meant nothing of happiness to him.
For whom, after all, should he save, hoard, gather together, economise?
Who was there to labour for? For whom should he endure?
He cared nothing for women; he had really never cared for any woman
excepting only this one. He would never marry and have a son. He had no
near or distant relatives. For whose sake, then, was he standing here in
workman's overalls? What business had he here in the basement of a
shabby house in midsummer? Did there remain any vague hope of Strelsa?
Perhaps. Hope is the last of one's friends to die. Or was it for himself
that he was working now to provide against those evil days "when the
keepers of the house shall tremble"? Perhaps he was unconsciously
obeying nature's first law.
And yet, slowly within him grew a certainty that these reasons were not
the real ones--not the vital impulse that moved his hand steadily
through critical and delicate moments as he bent, breathless, over the
faded splendours of ancient canvases. No; somehow or other he had
already begun to work for the sake of the work itself--whatever that
really meant. That was the basic impulse--the occult motive; and,
somehow he knew that, once aroused, the desire to strive could never
again in him remain wholly quiescent.
       *       *       *       *       *
Both Dankmere and Miss Vining had gone to lunch, presumably in different
directions; Daisy and her youngsters, having been nourished, were
asleep; there was not a sound in the house except the soft rubbing of
tissue-paper where Quarren was lightly removing the retouching varnish
from a relined canvas. Presently the front door-bell rang.
Quarren rinsed his hands and, still wearing overalls and painter's
blouse, mounted the basement stairs and opened the front door. And Mrs.
Sprowl supported by a footman waddled in, panting.
"Tell your master I want to see him," she said--"I don't mean that fool
of an Englishman; I mean Mr. Quar--Good Lord! Ricky, is that you?
Here, get me a chair--those front steps nearly killed me. Long ago I
swore I'd never enter a house which was not basement-built and had an
elevator!... Hand me one of those fans. And if there's any water in the
house not swarming with typhoid germs, get me a glass of it."
He brought her a tumbler of spring water; she panted and gulped and
fanned and panted, her little green eyes roaming around her.
Presently she dismissed the footman, and turned her heavily flushed face
on Quarren. The rolls of fat crowded the lace on her neck, perspiration
glistened under her sparklike eyes.
"How are you?" she inquired.
He said, smilingly, that he was well.
"You don't look it. You look gaunt.... Well, I never thought you'd come
to this--that you had it in you to do anything useful."
"I believe I've heard you say so now and then," he said with perfect
good-humour.
"Why not? Why should I have thought that your talents amounted to more
than ornaments?"
"No reason to suppose so," he admitted, amused.
"Not the slightest. Talent usually damns people to an effortless
existence. And yours was a pleasant one, too. You had a good time,
didn't you?"
"Oh, very."
"There was nothing to do except to come in, kiss the girls all around,
and make faces to amuse them, was there?"
"Not much more," he admitted, laughing.
Mrs. Sprowl's little green eyes travelled all over the walls.
"Umph," she snorted, "I suppose these are some of Dankmere's heirlooms.
I never fancied that little bounder----"
"Wait!"
"What!"
"Wait a moment. I like Dankmere, and he isn't a bounder----"
"He is one!"
"Keep that opinion to yourself," he said bluntly.
The old lady's eyes blazed. "I'm damned if I do!" she retorted--"I'll
say what----"
"Not here! You mustn't be uncivil here. You know well enough how to
behave when necessary; and if you don't do it I'll call your carriage."
For fully five minutes Mrs. Sprowl sat there attempting to digest what
he had said. The process was awful to behold, but she accomplished it at
last with a violent effort.
"Ricky," she said, "I didn't come here to quarrel with you over an
Englishman who--of whom I--have my personal opinion."
He laughed, leaned over and deliberately patted her fat wrist; and she
glared at him somewhat as a tigress inspects a favourite but overgrown
and presuming cub.
"I don't know why you came," he said, "but it was nice of you anyway and
I am glad to see you."
"If that's true," she said, "you're one of mighty few. The joy which
people feel in my presence is usually exhibited when I'm safely out of
their houses, or they are out of mine."
She laughed at that; and he did too; and she gulped her glass of water
empty and refused more.
"Ricky," she began abruptly, "you've been up to that Witch-Hollow place
of Molly's?"
"Yes."
"Well, what the devil is going on there?"
"Aviation," he said blandly.
"What else? Don't evade an answer! I can't get anything out of that
little idiot, Molly; I can't worm anything out of Sir Charles; I can't
learn anything from Strelsa Leeds; and as for Langly he won't even
answer my letters.
"Now I want to know what is going on there? I've been as short with
Strelsa as I dare be--she's got to be led with sugar. I've almost
ordered her to come to me at Newport--but she doesn't come."
"She's resting," said Quarren coolly.
"Hasn't she had time to rest in that dingy, dead-and-alive place? And
what keeps Langly there? He has nothing to look at except a few
brood-mares. Do you suppose he has the bad taste to hang around waiting
for Chester Ledwith to get out and Mary Ledwith to return? Or is it
something else that glues him there--with the Yulan in the North
River?"
Quarren shrugged his lack of interest in the subject.
"If I thought," muttered the old lady--"if I imagined for one moment
that Langly was daring to try any of his low, cold-blooded tricks on
Strelsa Leeds, I'd go up there myself--I'd take the next train and tell
that girl plainly what kind of a citizen my charming nephew really is!"
Quarren was silent.
"Why the dickens don't you say something?" she demanded. "I want to know
whether I ought to go up there or not. Have you ever observed--have you
ever suspected that there might be anything between Langly and Strelsa
Leeds?--any tacit understanding--any interest on her part in him?... Why
don't you answer me?"
"You know," he said, "that it's none of your business what I believe."
"Am I to take that impudence literally?"
"Exactly as I said it. You asked improper questions; I am obliged to
remind you that you cannot expect me to answer them."
"Why can't you speak of Langly?"
"Because what concerns him does not concern me."
"I thought you were in love with Strelsa," she said bluntly.
"If I were, do you imagine I'd discuss it with you?"
"I'll tell you what!" she shouted, purple with rage, "you might do a
damn sight worse! I'd--I'd rather see her your wife than his!--and God
knows what he wants of her at that--as Mary Ledwith has first call or
the world will turn Langly out of doors!"
Quarren, slightly paler, looked at her in silence.
"I tell you the world will spit in his face," she said between her
teeth, "if he doesn't make good with Mary Ledwith after what he's done
to her and her husband."
"He has too much money," said Quarren. "Besides there's an ordinance
against it."
"You watch and see! Some things are too rotten to be endured----"
"What? I haven't noticed any either abroad or here. Anyway it doesn't
concern me."
"Don't you care for that girl?"
"We are friends."
"Friends, eh!" she mimicked him wickedly, plying her fan like a
madwoman; "well I fancy I know what sort of friendship has made you look
ten years older in half a year. Oh, Ricky, Ricky!"--she added with an
abrupt change of feeling--"I'm sorry for you. I like you even when you
are impertinent to me--and you know I do! But I--my heart is set on her
marrying Sir Charles. You know it is. Could anything on earth be more
suitable?--happier for her as well as for him? Isn't he a man where
Langly is a--a toad, a cold-blooded worm!--a--a thing!
"I tell you my heart's set on it; there is nothing else interests me; I
think of nothing else, care for nothing else----"
"Why?"
"What?" she said, suddenly on her guard.
"Why do you care for it so much?"
"Why? That is an absurd question."
"Then answer it without taking time to search for any reason except the
real one."
"Ricky, you insolent----"
"Never mind. Answer me; why are you so absorbed in this marriage?"
She said with a calmly contemptuous shrug: "Because Sir Charles is
deeply in love with her, and I am fond of them both."
"Is that sufficient reason for such strenuous and persistent efforts on
your part?"
"That--and hatred for Langly," she said stolidly.
"Just those three reasons?"
"Certainly. Just those three."
He shook his head.
"Do you disbelieve me?" she demanded.
"I am compelled to--knowing that never in all your life have you made
the slightest effort in behalf of friendship--never inconvenienced
yourself in the least for the sake of anybody on earth."
She stared at him, amazed, then angry, then burst into a loud laugh;
but, even while laughing her fat features suddenly altered as though
pain had cut mirth short.
"What is the matter?" he said.
"Nothing.... You are the matter.... I've always been fool enough to
