Mann brought home a parcel now and then, and 
wished there was some one to direct him and read 
to him and discuss things. Marigold said to her 
mother afterward that the rooms looked so skimpy 
and so sort of plain that she didn’t feel at all 
out of place, though they were so large. 

Can’t any one play on the piano ? ” she in- 
quired. 

Mrs. Alden does a little — old-fashioned hymn 
tunes. We ought to have some one who knew 
songs. Don’t you children sing?” 

Chan and Marigold sing just beautiful,” de- 
clared Prim eagerly. 

And you ? ” inquired Mr. Mann. 

“ Oh, I sing like a tea-kettle, mother says, just 
up and down,” making a little motion with her 
hand like beating time. Maybe Pll learn by and 
by,” hopefully. 

Mrs. Alden came in, fresh and nice in a light 
cambric gown. They talked of the Sunday-school 
hymns. She could play some of them. 


“ Then sing them,’ suggested Mr. Mann. 

They were rather bashful at first, but soon Chan 
was really inspired by the music. What a beauti- 
ful voice the boy had! And Marigold as well. 
He had heard of little boys in the city who were 
paid for singing, and men who made a great deal 
of money. Why, the lad might be able to do some- 
thing with his voice presently. And though he 
was pale and thin, what beautiful brown eyes he 
had, like his mother’s. 

“ There’s something mother sings,” Chan said 
presently, “ about Bonnie Boon. I know all the 
words of that.” 

Oh, do you ? ” Mrs. Alden smiled. ‘‘ It’s a 
great favorite of mine. And ‘ Auld Lang Syne.’ ” 

“ Yes, we know that,” said Marigold. 

“ Then let’s have a little chorus.” 

They sang it very well indeed for new ac- 
quaintances. But Mr. Mann thought the boy’s 
voice in Bonnie Boon ” was sweet to heart-break- 
ing. He winked some moisture back in his eyes, 
and said, If you don’t know anything else, sing 
them all over again.” 

He was settling his mind to the plan that he 
would have Chan and Marigold, and educate them 
and take pleasure in their growing up here. Even 
if Chan didn’t get quite well he would be a son 


 

worth having, and Marigold had some very pretty 
ways. They would both come to love him — that 
was what he wanted. It was better than begin- 
ning with babies who couldn’t learn much for sev- 
eral years. They were just right. 

“ Oh, I must go and get supper,” Mrs. Alden 
said as she rose. 

“Won’t you let me help you a little?” asked 
Marigold with a winsome smile. 

Tip and Prim went out to have a play with 
the dogs. Chan sat down at the piano and touched 
the keys lightly with his small fingers. 

“ Oh, how lovely it must be to make music for 
yourself,” and he gave a rapturous sigh. “ It just 
fills you up to the brim with joy. There isn’t 
anything like it, only sometimes when the pain 
has been bad mother holds me and sings in her 
soft way. Did your mother ever do it ? ” 

“ I never had a mother to remember.” 

“ Oh, Mr. Mann, I’m awful sorry,” Chan put 
out his left hand, the right was touching the notes 
softly like the trickling of a rivulet, “ ’cause a 
mother’s the sweetest and dearest thing in the 
whole world. Well,” reflectively, “ my mother is. 
I don’t know as I’d want some other boy’s mother.” 

“ The beautifullest mother,” Tip had said. 

“ Children, come to supper,” said Mrs. Alden. 


 

Tip and Primrose had to be washed again, and 
Prim’s dress was much soiled as she had shed 
her apron. 

Oh, isn’t it all beautiful ! ” sighed Tip. Pd 
like to live here. And we have only an old tin 

wash basin, and nothing is nice and new ” 

Oh, hush! ” in a whisper. “ We have mother, 
you know, and when we get big we’ll earn lots 
of money and buy them all. We mustn’t covet 
other people’s things.” 

Supper was delightful. Then Dan came round 
with the surrey, and there were no end of regret- 
ful exclamations about the day’s being so short. 

“ And, Mrs. Alden, we’ve had just the loveliest 
time, and we’re very much obliged to you.” Mrs. 
Firth had told Marigold several times to be sure 
to say this. “ I hope we haven’t made you a great 
deal of trouble, getting dinner for so many. It 
was just a splendid dinner, and the pudding was 
’licious. And the real cake for supper. Mother 
can’t afford icing, she only makes cookies and 
gingerbread, and they don’t need it. There are 
so many of us to feed.” 

“ I’m glad you liked everything,” and Mrs. 
Alden smiled down into the flushing face. Mari- 
gold felt that she had acquitted herself finely. 
“ And you must come again.” 




So the two girls were helped in. 

I'm not going home,” announced Tip. I'm 
going to stay all night with Chan.” 

Tip ! ” exclaimed the elders in a breath of wild 
surprise. 

‘‘Yes. Mayn’t I?” catching Mr. Mann’s hand 
in an appealing grasp. 

“Oh, Tip! What would mother say?” 

“ Dan can tell her. Why, she’ll be glad to have 
me stay with Chan in a strange place.” 

“ Why, I'm not afraid,” remonstrated Chan. 

Tip stood up very straight, stretching every point 
to add dignity to his protestation. 

“ I'm going to stay. You’ll let me?” to Mr. 
Mann, who was much amused at the little fellow’s 
persistency. 

“ Tip, come this minute,” commanded Primrose. 

Instead the child took a step back, still hanging 
to his host. 

“ Oh, let him stay,” said Mr. Mann. “ Dan 
will take him home in the morning.” 

“ There ! ” triumphantly. 

“ Tip, you’ll be homesick and cry before bed- 
time,” said Chandler. 

“ No, I won’t, either.” 

“ Make believe to go,” said Marigold to Dan, 
who started Bonnie. 


 

Tip turned with superb dignity, and seated him- 
self on the step. Pilot came and gave him an 
approval. 

“ Good-by, good-by, we’re on our way, 

We’ll be glad to come another day,” 

sang out Primrose. 

Mr. Mann laughed. Chan looked rather cross, 
if so sweet a face could put on such an expression. 
The host sat down between the boys. Tip caught 
his hand again, and smiled. He placed his other 
arm around Chandler and drew him nearer. 

I don’t know what mother’ll say ” 

“ Oh, I’ll make it all right with your mother,” 
said Mr. Mann. 

“ You think because you’re bigger’n me you’re 
the biggest toad in the puddle, but you ain’t. 
Linn’s bigger’n you. And I’m goin’ to school this 
winter,” Tip said resentfully. 

“ You won’t like it a bit. You’ll have to study 
awful lessons, and you’ll get demerits.” 

Well, they don’t lick the boys any more. Linn 
said so.” 

“ Oh,” and Chan gave a sudden cry of delight. 

Hear that beautiful bird! Why, it’s ’most like 
the fine notes on the piano,” and he forgot to 
quarrel in his rapture. 

That’s a thrush — wood-robin, some people call 


 

it. They have some nests over there in the 
woods.’’ 

“ I wish I knew all the names of birds. There’s 
the blue jay and the martin and the swallow, you 
can always tell him by the beautiful way he flies, 
and the robins are as tame as anything. They 
come and eat up the chickens’ feed. And there’s 
a fire-bird that’s just gorgeous.” 

“ I must get you a nice book of birds with 
colored plates.” 

Mr. Mann,” with a little tremor in his voice, 
mother’s afraid you’ll do too much for us. 
’Tisn’t as if you were our uncle, or some relation, — 
we haven’t any uncles.” 

“ And I have no nephews or any relations that 
I know of. I’d like to have some. About two 
little boys and two girls. That would be just 
nice. So I think I’ll have to be your uncle.” 

Pilot had been coaxing Tip for a race by all 
the arts he knew, and when the boy jumped up he 
was wild in a minute. Down the path he 
went, even out in the street, as there were no 
fences. 

Mr. and Mrs. Chedister sat on their porch. 

Didn’t we understand,” she began rather 
sharply, that that next-door person was to have 
no children ” 


 

That he had none,” corrected her husband. 
“ But he might marry again.” 

“ And there has been the wildest crew there 
to-day ! They have run and raced and shouted and 
made bedlam so you could hear it plainly over 
here. They were poorly dressed, too, part of the 
time had on aprons. Oh, I do hope they don’t 
belong to him ! It’s a fad now to bring children 
out of the slums of the city, and I think it very 
reprehensible. They may scatter disease and bad 
language, and Heaven only knows what all. This 
has been such a select neighborhood. And the 
Gedney children were packed off to boarding-school 
and to the seaside in vacation, so they really were 
not a great annoyance.” 

“ I’ll find out by Dan,” replied Mr. Chedister. 

Gladys lived by rule. She had gone to bed 
now, but she lay there wide awake thinking of 
the merry time the children had, and wishing there 
were some real children to play with her. She 
did get so tired sitting still or just walking up and 
down or playing with Helen Augusta, who was 
quite a cultivated doll who could say “ mama ” 
and walk when you wound her up, after the 
fashion of moving wax figures. But after one 
had had Helen Augusta for a year, and played 
tea with her and dressed and undressed her, she 


 

began to pall. Sometimes when she was down in 
the field and Joanna was reading, she actually 
took a little run. But to run with a real live 
girl, and scream if you wanted to! 

“ Yes, you’ll have to call me uncle,” Mr. Mann 
was saying after some consideration. I don’t 
think I have a very pretty name to call,” and he 
gave his little chuckle. 

What! All of us? The whole eight?” 

Then he laughed merrily. That would be 
funny. You and Tip might begin.” 

“ Well — if mother was willing. Yes, I’d like 
it.” How good and strong the arm about him 
felt. But if I couldn’t get well, would you like 
a lame little boy? ” 

“ I ought to care more for him. But you’re 
going to get well. We’ll see to-morrow.” 

Will it hurt much ? ” 

It won’t hurt at all. They have a curious 
light they call an x-ray and that looks at you, 
looks through you and sees just what is the mat- 
ter. They don’t have to cut into anybody, but 
if they did the doctor would give him ether, and 
that’s just like going to sleep, and when he wakes 
he is all mended up right and all he has to do is to 
get well.” 

** That seems very easy,” returned Chan. But 


 

Granny Keen said once I might have to lose 
my leg. Oh, I couldn’t do that ! ” with a pathetic 
little cry. There’s old Mr. Downs by the store 
who has a sort of wooden leg and goes stumping 
round, and Alf Gardiner goes on crutches cause 
his leg is all twisted up with rheumatism. And 
Polly Stead has one such short leg because her 
hip was hurt.” 

Never you mind what the old grannies say, 
my little lad. We’ll have this all right as you 
will see, and you must not be afraid of anything 
bad happening. God takes care of little boys.” 

Did He always? Mr. Mann thought of the 
maimed little creatures he had seen in the city. 

Tip came back warm and tired, and crawled 
up close to the sheltering arm, but presently laid 
his little face down on the soft knee, and shut 
his eyes. 

Tell me about your other brother — Linn,” 
Mr. Mann said. I don’t seem to know much 
about him.” 

Oh, Linn’s splendid and strong, and can run 
like a wild horse. He’s going to school again 
this winter ’cause mother has so much work now 
she can spare him, and then farmers don’t have 
so much for boys in the winter, though Mrs. Briggs 
would keep him all the time, he’s so handy to have 

about, but he’s so fond of books and study, and 
is going to do something to make a good deal 
of money. Then we’re all going away. Mother 
thinks the old house will fall down by that time,” 
laughing a little. Some of the chimney blew 
off last spring.” 

And Amaryllis ” 

“ She can’t go to school, you see. She’s got 
to stay home and be mother while real mother is 
out working. And Rilla knows lots of things, and 
she’s so good and sweet when any of us has earache 
or toothache or a bad pain. Oh, we just couldn’t 
get along without her.” 

He was so interested in hearing about their 
straits and economies. He had been there himself. 


CHAPTER IX 


IN A HOSPITAL WARD 

Mr. Mann, don’t you think it is time those 
children went to bed ? ” said the low, motherly 
voice of Mrs. Alden. 

“ O my ! Why, I forgot about bedtime ! It 
is so delightful out here, and my little lad has 
been so entertaining. He’s going to be my boy 
for good and all, ain’t you, Chan? And Tip’s 
sound asleep.” 

“ Now you’ll have a time,” exclaimed Chan 
fearfully, “if he begins to cry for mother! He 
often lies around and goes to sleep, and she picks 
him up and undresses him without a word.” 

“ Maybe I could. I’ve done it to little boys 
before now. If you could carry him upstairs ” 

Mr. Mann took him in his arms very gently. 
Pilot gave a little whine, but he was hushed at 
once. Tip was laid on the bed, and Mrs. Alden 
took his clothes off one side, then the other, and 
the shoes and stockings. He gave a little grunt 
or two, and she laid him on one side of the bed, 
looking up smilingly. 


 


” You’re just like a mother,” said Chan. 

“ I had two little boys once.” 

Where are they now ? ” 

“ Oh, they’re grown-up men. Can I do any- 
thing for you? ” 

“ Thank you,” returned Chan. I’m used to 
waiting upon myself.” 

“ Here is a glass of water on the window- 
sill.” 

He gave a grateful nod. 

Oh, what a lovely big room it was, with a 
pretty paper, roses and daisies and long grass 
stems, and white window draperies, and a white 
spread on the bed, and a soft carpet that looked 
like brown moss with green leaves scattered about ; 
a bureau with a great glass, a stand with a bowl 
and ewer, and towels with red borders across the 
ends. And the bed was what Prim would have 
called supersplacious.” 

Mr. Mann went to his room and sat down by 
the window. The moon was crawling up in the 
heavens, but the stars seemed to defy her. Oh, 
how fragrant the air was with the falling dew! 
And what a day it had been! How Chan had 
crept into his heart! He could still feel the clasp 
of the little fingers, hear the sweet voice that was 
full of music in singing. Yes, he would take 


 

the child, and he should be like his very own. 
He never would know the difference, for Chan 
was so little when his father died, how could he 
remember? And he could do so much more for 
him than his own father. 

And Tip? Well, the other must be a girl. 
Should it be Prim or Marigold? Prim was so 
bright and droll. Marigold would be very pretty 
with her curling hair, her eyes full of laughing 
lights, then gravely sweet like a shaded lake, and 
her mouth was so merry and daring and sweet and 
perplexing. He couldn’t very well, have Amaryl- 
lis, her mother would need her, and the twins 
were too small. Yes, it must be Marigold. 

He actually fell asleep there in the reclining 
chair, not for the first time either. He did so 
enjoy this liberty with no one to keep nagging at 
him. 

Sometimes there was a cry or a shriek. The 
old owl in the sycamore was uttering his wail, 
and he turned over, surprised to find himself not 
in bed. Oh, the children! What had happened? 

This had happened. 

Unluckily Tip had wakened. In the narrow 
bed at home he could always feel Linn. He 
stretched out his hand — there was nothing. He 
sat up — the moon was shining in the window. 




There was something on the floor, he saw it 
move. Then he uttered a shriek. 

“Tip! Tip!” Chan had hold of him. “Hush 

up, I'm here. You’re ” he placed his hand 

over Tip’s mouth, but it was jerked away. 

“ I want my muver ! I want my muver ! 
There’s a big black bear on the floor, and oh, 
just hear it ! ” 

“ You silly ’ramus! That’s an owl, and there’s 
no bear. Hush up or Fll stick you under the 
bed. I said you oughtn’t stay. And you are 
making such a racket you’ll wake everybody in 
the house, and it’s Mr. Mann’s.” 

“ I want muver ! ” sobbingly. 

“ You can’t have her unless you get up and 
run home through the dark. I won’t go with you. 
Some one is coming.” 

- It was Mrs. Alden with a light. “ What is the 
matter ? ” she asked in a reassuring tone. 

Tip hid under the coverlet. “ It’s Tip,” said 
Chan, “ he woke up and was frightened by the 
owl ” 

He emerged then. “ ’Tain’t like our owl, and 
there’s a bear on the floor ” 

Mrs. Alden had thrown a small footspread over 
a chair, and it had slipped down. She picked 
it up with a light laugh. 


 

''You ninny, there’s your bear! And there 
are different kinds of owls. Ours is a little hoot- 
owl.” 

" And this is a big screech-owl. He’s been 
driven away several times, but he comes back, 
but he can’t hurt any one.” 

Mr. Mann came and sat down on the side of 
the bed. Tip leaned on his breast and sobbed, 
"If you’d woked up in the night and there wasn’t 
any muver to say, 'What is it. Tip, dear?’ and 
get you a drink and come and kiss you — and a 
horrid owl screeched, and that on the floor looked 
like a bear, and — and ” 

" Tip, when I was a little boy and woke in 
the night, and sometimes had a cruel pain or a 
toothache I didn’t have any mother ever to com- 
fort me, nor any Mrs. Alden to bring a light and 
get me a drink, nor any brother to stay with me. 
And now you are not going to be afraid any 
more, and to-morrow morning you are going home 
to the dearest mother any little boy ever had.” 

Tip raised his head and took a drink. 

" It’s too bad,” began Chan on a half cry of 
mortification. " I didn’t want Tip to stay. He 
often wakes up in the night and makes a rumpus. 
I’m awful sorry.” 

" Chan, my little lad, don’t worry a bit. And 


 

Tip’s going to be a brave boy now and go back 
to sleep again.” 

'' Yes,” said Tip. '' You see, if I had known 
it wasn’t a bear, and if the owl hadn’t screamed, 
and it was all so strange 

Yes,” and Mr. Mann nodded. “ Perhaps you 
had better leave a light here, Mrs. Alden.” 

I’ll crawl up by Chan. Linn always lets me 
when I’m frightened in the night. And I won’t 
be ’fraid any more.” 

That’s a nice boy. Chan, are you all right ? ” 

Yes, thank you.” 

Good-night then,” in a kindly tone. 

Tip went to sleep pretty soon and then Chan un- 
clasped the little arms and moved softly over to his 
own side. It was annoying, and yet it was funny. 
Of course he ought not have stayed. Things often 
happened to him in the night. And now the owl 
went to sleep and all was quiet. 

Mr. Mann laughed a little, too. He saw the 
children on the doorstep crying because their 
mother had gone away and left them all alone, 
and as he was dropping off to sleep the refrain 
floated through his mind — The beautifullest 
mother ” 

Tip was all right the next morning and quite 
merry, though Chan teased him a little about the 


 

bear. Dan had the surrey up to take his master 
down to the station. Then he would come back 
and drive Tip home. The boy agreed to this 
willingly. 

“ It’s a nice bed,” he said to Mrs. Alden, and 
the room’s a hundred times nicer than ours, and 
you have such a beautiful house, and the dogs and 
all, but my mother is over there, and I never was 
away before. But you were next best. If I 
hadn’t any mother like Mr. Mann when he was a 
little boy, I should want you. You know just 
how to be good to little boys.” 

Mrs. Alden bent down and kissed him. 

Chan looked very nice in the clean blouse with 
its big collar that he had brought along. And 
what a wonderful thing it was to be in a steam- 
car and fly along past the little towns to stop 
here and there and at last reach the great station 
where he was quite sure there was a million of 
people. Then the factory, with the noise of the 
machinery, the men at work, the offlce, and Mr. 
Ross going out to a restaurant to dinner, and 
then to see the doctor at two o’clock. It almost 
seemed to Chan as if he had lived a year. 

The hospital, for it really was that, was like 
a palace with all its beautiful appointments. The 
doctor’s office was not in any wise formidable, 


 

and Dr. Richards had a kindly face and a voice 
that could have persuaded one into anything. 
Chan was a little shy at first, but the doctor coaxed 
out the story of how he had been hurt, and 
what had been done for him, and pressed around 
the hip to find the place of injury, and made him 
walk up and down, nodding now and then. 

He’s beginning to twist his knee a little. It’s 
a great pity the thing couldn’t have been done at 
once, but of course country practitioners are sel- 
dom expert surgeons, especially the older ones. 
Now, my little lad, come here and hold up your 
hand.” 

Chan shrunk a little from the curious machine. 

“ Now look at the dark little bones in your 
hand.” 

It was so wonderful that Chan really forgot 
to breathe. There in every finger was a little 
streak joined together by a sort of knob that was 
larger, and they went down the back of the hand 
and there were ever so many more little knobs 
at the wrist and one big one at the side. Was 
it really his hand, and all safe and sound ! 

That’s the way I’m going to look at your 
hip, so now you won’t mind a bit.” 

No, Chan didn’t mind, not even when the doctor 
gave him a pinch that hurt, for he kept looking 


 

at his hand and thinking how curious it was that 
you could see through anybody like that. 

“ Well, it’s not so bad, and will be what we 
call a bloodless operation. If it could have been 
done before it would have been only a simple re- 
location. There must be ether and a plaster jacket, 
but I think six weeks will make you over as good 
as new. There won’t be any hurt, only the bother 
of getting well, and there’ll be children and 
nurses to amuse you.” 

And I’ll walk just as well as before? ” Chan’s 
voice trembled with excitement. 

Oh, you’ll run and play ball and skate and 
grow into a fine lad, and have grand good times.” 

The rest of the talk was between the doctor 
and Mr. Mann. Then Dr. Richards summoned 
a nurse, a pretty young woman with a little 
white cape over her shoulders and a big white 
apron, and asked her to take these guests to the 
sun-room. 

They went up in an elevator. There was a 
room with a glass roof and windows here and 
there, with soft, blue curtains to temper the glare. 
There were children playing about, riding in mini- 
ature autos, two or three who walked with 
crutches, but they all looked happy and merry 
and were chatting and laughing or playing games. 


 

and they were all so lovely and clean. The floor 
was covered with some soft, light stuff, and the 
girls had simple white dresses such as the twins 
wore for Sunday best. The nurses in odd little 
white caps and white aprons looked so cheerful 
and smiling, and in one nook, a small sort of ante- 
room, sat a lady reading to a group. 

Do you think of coming here, or are you 
only a visitor ? ’’ asked a nurse in a tone that 
somehow sounded like his mother’s. 

“ Oh, I’m coming here. I’ve got to be mended 
a little, and you are all so nice, and it’s so beauti- 
ful that I won’t get lonesome, for, you see, there’s 
eight of us at home and mother besides.” 

She patted him on the shoulder. What tender 
eyes he had, and how much love shone in his 
face ! 

'' Eight? And any girls? ” 

'' Oh, yes. There are only three boys and 
there’s twins.” 

And what is your name ? ” 

He told her. “ And Linn is named for a man 
who knew all about trees and plants, and Tip for 
General Harrison, and all the girls are flowers.” 

“ Flowers ? ” with a questioning intonation. 

“ It’s this way. There’s Amaryllis — she’s the 
oldest of us all,— then Marigold and Primrose and 


 

Rhoda — but mother wouldn’t have the rest of her 
name — and Laurel, they’re the twins.” 

“ Well, I declare ! ” she laughed softly. When 
you are here I hope some of them will come. I 
should like to see them all. Why, you’ve a gar- 
den I ” 

Mr. Mann beckoned him, and he went across 
the room where a rosy boy stood. 

“ Oh,” he exclaimed, “ he ain’t bad lame. I 
just couldn’t walk without a crutch, and look at 
me now ! ” He took a few proud steps. “ I’m 
going home next week. I’m all father has, and 
we haven’t any mother. And then we are going 
way off to London. Do you know where that 
is?” 

“ Oh, yes, it’s in England. And that’s on the 
other Continent.” 

The little boy stared, then he added, “ I’d like 
to stay here, only they don’t keep well children, 
and father wants me. You must be sure to 
come.” 

Chan said a pretty, gracious good-by to them 
all, and down they went again in the queer ele- 
vator. 

“ I don’t feel a bit afraid,” and he squeezed Mr. 
Mann’s hand. “ But wasn’t it all lovely, the 
sunshine and the nurses and the children? But 


 

there was a little boy, not as big as me, who had 
only one leg. He’ll always have to walk with a 
crutch, won’t he? Oh, suppose I’d broken mine 
clear off ! ” 

“ He was probably run over. So many of them 
are. There are such crowds in the city.” 

Then it’s best not to live in the city. Oh, 
why can’t they send all the little children into 
the country until they get grown up ? ” 

That might be a good scheme,” smiling. 

They went back to the office, where Mr. Mann 
wrote some letters, picked up a few papers, and 
slipped an elastic around them. 

Now we’ll start for home. Have you had a 
nice day ? ” 

“ It’s been grand ! When will I have to come ? ” 

“ Next week.” 

“ It’s such a beautiful place,” with a sigh of 
satisfaction. “ And to think there’s a light that 
can see straight through you ! ” 

Mr. Mann knew Mrs. Firth would be doubly 
anxious to see her boy, so they drove over to the 
old red house at once. How queer and small and 
dingy it looked to Chan, but there was mother. 
And he felt sorry for the little boy going to Lon- 
don without any mother. After all he guessed 
mothers were best. 


 

Mr. Mann made the few necessary explana- 
tions. 

You’ve been so wonderfully good about it. I 
don’t know how you’ll ever get paid. I suppose 
I ought to advise a little with the minister and 
his wife. ’Twould seem queer-like to settle it 
all by myself. They’ve been good, too. Why, I 
can’t seem to make it real.” 

He thought a moment. “ No,” he returned, 

don’t say anything about it until after Sunday. 
You’ll have the neighbors in advising, telling you 
different things that will upset you; and you’ll 
feel all at sea, maybe. There’s nothing to be done, 
you don’t even have to get any clothes ready, only 
keep the little lad cheery. He’s had a nice time 
and will have ever so much to tell you. I’ll be 
over on Sunday again. After eight or ten days 
you can go down and see him.” 

She laughed with her eyes full of tears, and 
her face flushed. How pretty she looked ! ‘‘ The 
beauti fullest mother.” And she had almost a 
child’s innocence with all her good sense. 

Oh, what an evening it was! Chan laid his 
head on his mother’s lap, sitting beside her on a 
bench, and the younger children were around on 
the floor, they couldn’t get close enough. 

‘‘ Why, it’s like some of the things in the old 




fairy book about palaces and such, and people 
waiting on you and everything,” declared Prim en- 
thusiastically. 

Fd almost have my own leg broken,” said 
Linn, to go to such a place as that. But what 
gets me is that thing that lets a body see through 
you. Did you truly see the bones in your hand? 
You didn’t imagine it?” 

“ Oh, truly, truly,” in a most positive tone. 

