"Of course; but you ought to have one. Can you afford one?"

"I don't know. I don't know what they--they cost----"

"Let me fix that up," he said, with animation. "Let me think it out. I
know a lot of people--I know some indigent and respectable old terrors
who ought to fill the bill and hold their tongues as long as their
salary is paid----"

"Oh, please don't, Mr. Desboro!"

He seated himself on the arm of her chair:

"Jacqueline, dear, it's only for your sake----"

"But I did understand your letter!"

"I know--I know. I just want to see you with other people. I just want
to have them see you----"

"But I don't need a chaperon. Business women are understood, aren't
they? Even women whom you know go in for house decoration, and cigarette
manufacturing, and tea rooms, and hats and gowns."

"But they were socially known before they went in for these things. It's
the way of the world, Jacqueline--nothing but suspicion when
intelligence and beauty step forward from the ranks. And what do you
suppose would happen if a man of my sort attempts to vouch for any
woman?"

"Then don't--please don't try! I don't care for it--truly I don't. It
was nice of you to wish it, Mr. Desboro, but--I'd rather be just what I
am and--your friend."

"It can't be," he said, under his breath. But she heard him, looked up
dismayed, and remained mute, crimsoning to the temples.

"This oughtn't to go on," he said, doggedly.

She said: "You have not understood me. I am different from you. You are
not to blame for thinking that we are alike at heart; but, nevertheless,
it is a mistake. I can be what I will--not what I once seemed to be--for
a moment--with you--" Her head sank lower and remained bowed; and he saw
her slender hands tightening on the arm of the chair.

"I--I've got to be honest," she said under her breath. "I've got to
be--in every way. I know it perfectly well, Mr. Desboro. Men seem to be
different--I don't know why. But they seem to be, usually. And all I
want is to remain friends with you--and to remember that we are friends
when I am at work somewhere. I just want to be what I am, a business
woman with sufficient character and intelligence to be your friend
quietly--not even for one evening in competition with women belonging to
a different life--women with wit and beauty and charm and savoir
faire----"

"Jacqueline!" he broke out impulsively. "I want you to be my guest
here. Won't you let me arrange with some old gorgon to chaperon you? I
can do it! And with the gorgon's head on your moral shield you can
silence anybody!"

He began to laugh; she sat twisting her fingers on her lap and looking
up at him in a lovely, distressed sort of way, so adorably perplexed and
yet so pliable, so soft and so apprehensive, that his laughter died on
his lips, and he sat looking down at her in silence.

After a while he spoke again, almost mechanically:

"I'm trying to think how we can best be on equal terms, Jacqueline. That
is all. After your work is done here, I want to see you here and
elsewhere--I want you to come back at intervals, as my guest. Other
people will ask you. Other people must be here, too, when you are. I
know some who will accept you on your merits--if you are properly
chaperoned. That is all I am thinking about. It's fairer to you."

But even to himself his motive was not clear--only the rather confused
idea persisted that women in his own world knew how to take care of
themselves, whatever they chose to do about it--that Jacqueline would
stand a fairer chance with herself, and with him, whatever his
intentions might really be. It would be a squarer deal, that was all.

She sat thinking, one slim forefinger crook'd under her chin; and he saw
her blue eyes deep in thought, and the errant lock curling against her
cheek. Then she raised her head and looked at him:

"Do you think it best?"

"Yes--you adorable little thing!"

She managed to sustain his gaze:

"Could you find a lady gorgon?"

"I'm sure I can. Shall I?"

"Yes."

A moment later Farris announced luncheon. A swarm of cats greeted them
at the door, purring and waiving multi-coloured tails, and escorted them
to the table, from whence they knew came the delectable things
calculated to satisfy the inner cat.




CHAPTER VIII


The countryside adjacent to Silverwood was eminently and
self-consciously respectable. The fat, substantial estates still
belonged to families whose forefathers had first taken title to them.
There were, of course, a number of "colonial" houses, also a "colonial"
inn, The Desboro Arms, built to look as genuine as possible, although
only two years old, steam heated, and electric lighted.

But things "colonial" were the traditional capital of Silverwood, and
its thrifty and respectable inhabitants meant to maintain the
"atmosphere." To that end they had solemnly subscribed a very small sum
for an inn sign to swing in front of The Desboro Arms; the wheelwright
painted it; somebody fired a shotgunful of antiquity into it, and
American weather was rapidly doing the rest, with a gratifying result
which no degenerate European weather could have accomplished in half a
century of rain and sunshine.

The majority of the mansions in Silverwood township were as
inoffensively commonplace as the Desboro house. Few pre-Revolutionary
structures survived; the British had burned the countryside from Major
Lockwood's mansion at Pound Ridge all the way to Bedford Village and
across to the Connecticut line. With few exceptions, Silverwood houses
had shared the common fate when Tarleton and DeLancy galloped amuck
among the Westchester hills; but here and there some sad old mansion
still remained and was reverently cherished, as was also the graveyard,
straggling up the hill, set with odd old headstones, upon which most
remarkable cherubim smirked under a gladly permitted accumulation of
lichen.

Age, thrift, substance, respectability--these were the ideals of
Silverwood; and Desboro and his doings would never have been tolerated
there had it not been that a forbear of his, a certain dissolute
half-pay captain, had founded the community in 1680. This sacred
colonial fact had been Desboro's social salvation, for which, however,
he did not seem to care very much. Good women continued to be acidly
civil to him on this account, and also because Silverwood House and its
estates could no more be dropped from the revered galaxy of the county
than could a star be cast out of their country's flag for frivolous
behavior.

So worthy men endured him, and irreproachable women grieved for him,
although it was rumoured that he gave parties now and then which real
actresses had actually attended. Also, though he always maintained the
Desboro pew in church, he never decorated it with his person. Nor could
the countryside count on him socially, except at eccentric intervals
when his careless, graceful presence made the Westchester gaiety seem
rather stiff and pallid, and gave the thin, sour claret an unwonted
edge. And another and radical incompatibility; the Desboros were the
only family of Cavalier descent in the township. And deep in the hearts
of Silverwood folk the Desboros had ever seemed a godless race.

Now, there had been already some gossip among the Westchester hills
concerning recent doings at Silverwood House. Even when it became known
that the pretty girl who sped to and fro in Desboro's limousine,
between house and station, was a celebrated art expert, and was engaged
in cataloguing the famous Desboro collection, God-fearing people asked
each other why Desboro should find it necessary to meet her at the
station in the morning, and escort her back in the evening; and whether
it were actually obligatory for him to be present while the cataloguing
was in progress.

Westchester womanhood was beginning to look wan and worried; substantial
gentlemen gazed inquiringly at each other over the evening chess-board;
several flippant young men almost winked at each other. But these latter
had been accustomed to New York, and were always under suspicion in
their own families.

Therefore, it was with relief and surprise that Silverwood began to
observe Desboro in furs, driving a rakish runabout, and careering about
Westchester with Vail, his head farmer, seated beside him, evidently
intent on committing future agriculture--palpably planning for two
grass-blades where only one, or a mullein, had hitherto flourished
within the memory of living man.

Fertiliser in large loads was driven into the fallow fields of the
Desboros; brush and hedges and fences were being put in order. People
beheld these radical preliminaries during afternoon drives in their
automobiles; local tradesmen reported purchases of chemicals for soil
enriching, and the sale of all sorts of farm utensils to Desboro's
agent.

At the Country Club all this was gravely discussed; patriarchs mentioned
it over their checkers; maidens at bowls or squash or billiards listened
to the exciting tale, wide-eyed; hockey, ski, or skating parties
gossiped recklessly about it. The conclusion was that Desboro had
already sowed his wilder oats; and the worthy community stood watching
for the prodigal's return, intending to meet him while yet he was far
off.

He dropped in at the Country Club one day, causing a little less flutter
than a hawk in a hen-yard. Within a week he had drifted casually into
the drawing-rooms of almost all his father's old friends for a cup of
tea or an informal chat--or for nothing in particular except to saunter
into his proper place among them with all of the Desboro grace and
amiable insouciance which they had learned to tolerate but never
entirely to approve or understand.

It was not quite so casually that he stopped at the Hammerton's. And he
was given tea and buns by Mrs. Hammerton, perfectly unsuspicious of his
motives. Her husband came rambling in from the hothouses, presently,
where he spent most of his serious life in pinching back roses and
chrysanthemums; and he extended to Desboro a large, flat and placid
hand.

"Aunt Hannah and Daisy are out--somewhere--" he explained vaguely. "You
must have passed them on the way."

"Yes, I saw Daisy in the distance, exercising an old lady," said Desboro
carelessly. He did not add that the sight of Aunt Hannah marching across
the Westchester horizon had inspired him with an idea.

From her lair in town, she had come hither, for no love of her nephew
and his family, nor yet for Westchester, but solely for economy's bitter
sake. She made such pilgrimages at intervals every year, upsetting the
Hammerton household with her sarcasms, her harsh, high-keyed laughter,
her hardened ways of defining the word "spade"--for Aunt Hannah was a
terror that Westchester dreaded but never dreamed of ignoring, she being
a wayward daughter of the sacred soil, strangely and weirdly warped from
long transplanting among the gay and godless of Gotham town. And though
her means, after her husband's scared soul had taken flight, were
painfully attenuated, the high priests and captains among the gay and
godless feared her, and she bullied them; and she and they continued to
foregather from sheer tradition, but with mutual and sincere dislike.
For Aunt Hannah's name would always figure among the names of certain
metropolitan dowagers, dragons, gorgons, and holy harridans; always be
connected with certain traditional social events as long as the old lady
lived. And she meant to survive indefinitely, if she had anything to say
about it.

She came in presently with Daisy Hammerton. The latter gave her hand
frankly to her childhood's comrade; the former said:

"Hah! James Desboro!" very disagreeably, and started to nourish herself
at once with tea and muffins.

"James Desboro," she repeated scornfully, darting a wicked glance at him
where he stood smiling at her, "James Desboro, turning plow-boy in
Westchester! What's the real motive? That's what interests me. I'm a bad
old woman--I know it! All over paint and powder, and with too small a
foot and too trim a figger to be anything except wicked. Lindley knows
it; it makes his fingers tremble when he pinches crysanthemums; Susan
knows it; so does Daisy. And I admit it. And that's why I'm suspicious
of you, James; I'm so wicked myself. Come, now; why play the honest
yokel? Eh? You good-looking good-for-nothing!"

"My motive," he said amiably, "is to make a living and learn what it
feels like."

"Been stock-gambling again?"

"Yes, dear lady."

"Lose much?" she sniffed.

"Not a very great deal."

"Hah! And now you've got to raise the wind, somehow?"

He repeated, good-humouredly: "I want to make a living."

The trim little old lady darted another glance at him.

"Ha--ha!" she laughed, without giving any reason for the disagreeable
burst of mirth; and started in on another muffin.

"I think," said Mr. Hammerton, vaguely, "that James will make an
excellent agriculturist----"

"Excellent fiddlesticks!" observed Aunt Hannah. "He'd make a good
three-card man."

Daisy Hammerton said aside to Desboro:

"Isn't she a terror!"

"Oh, she likes me!" he said, amused.

"I know she does, immensely. She makes me take her for an hour's walk
every day--and I'm so tired of exercising her and listening to
her--unconventional stories--about you."

"She's a bad old thing," said Desboro affectionately, and, in his
natural voice: "Aren't you, Aunt Hannah? But there isn't a smarter foot,
or a prettier hand, or a trimmer waist in all Gotham, is there?"

"Philanderer!" she retorted, in a high-pitched voice. "What about that
Van Alstyne supper at the Santa Regina?"

"Which one?" he asked coolly. "Stuyve is always giving 'em."

"Read the Tattler!" said the old lady, seizing more muffins.

Mrs. Hammerton closed her tight lips and glanced uneasily at her
daughter. Daisy sipped her tea demurely. She had read all about it, and
burned the paper in her bedroom grate.

Desboro gracefully ignored the subject; the old lady laughed shrilly
once or twice, and the conversation drifted toward the more decorous
themes of pinching back roses and mixing plant-food, and preparing
nourishment for various precocious horticultural prodigies now
developing in Lindley Hammerton's hothouses.

Daisy Hammerton, a dark young girl, with superb eyes and figure, chatted
unconcernedly with Desboro, making a charming winter picture in her
scarlet felt hat and jacket, from which the black furs had fallen back.
She went in for things violent and vigorous, and no nonsense; rode as
hard as she could in such a country, played every game that demanded
quick eye and flexible muscle--and, in secret, alas, wrote verses and
short stories unanimously rejected by even the stodgier periodicals. But
nobody suspected her of such weakness--not even her own mother.

Desboro swallowed his tea and took leave of his rose-pinching host and
hostess, and their sole and lovely progeny, also, perhaps, the result of
scientific concentration. Aunt Hannah retained his hand:

"Where are you going now, James?"

"Nowhere--home," he said, pretending embarrassment, which was enough to
interest Aunt Hannah in the trap.

"Oh! Nowhere--home!" she mimicked him. "Where is 'nowhere home'?
Somewhere out? I've a mind to go with you. What do you say to that,
young man?"

"Come along," he said, a shade too promptly; and the little, bright,
mink-like eyes sparkled with malice. The trap was sprung, and Aunt
Hannah was in it. But she didn't yet suspect it.

"Slip on my fur coat for me," she said. "I'll take a spin with you in
your runabout."

"You overwhelm me," he protested, holding up the fur coat.

"I may do that yet, my clever friend! Come on! No shilly-shallying!
Susan! Tell your maid to lay out that Paquin gown which broke my
financial backbone last month! I'll bring James back to dinner--or know
the reason why!"

"I'll tell you why not, now," said Desboro. "I'm going to town early
this evening."

"Home, nowhere, and then to town," commented Aunt Hannah loudly. "A
multi-nefarious destination. James, if you run into the Ewigkeit by
way of a wire fence or a tree, I'll come every night and haunt you! But
don't poke along as Lindley pokes, or I'll take the wheel myself."

The deaf head-farmer, Vail, who had kept the engine going for fear of
freezing, left the wheel and crawled resignedly into the tonneau.

Aunt Hannah and Desboro stowed themselves aboard; the swift car went off
like a firecracker, then sped away into the darkness at such a pace
that presently Aunt Hannah put her marmot-like face close to Desboro's
ear and swore at him.

"Didn't you want speed?" he asked, slowing down.

"Where are you going, James--home, or nowhere?"

"Nowhere."

"Well, we arrived there long ago. Now, go home--your home."

"Sure, but I've got to catch that train----"

"Oh, you'll catch it--or something else. James?"

"Madame?"

"Some day I want to take a look at that young woman who is cataloguing
your collection."

"That's just what I want you to do now," he said cheerfully. "I'm taking
her to New York this evening."

Aunt Hannah, astonished and out of countenance, remained mute, her sharp
nose buried in her furs. She had been trapped, and she knew it. Then her
eyes glittered:

"You're being talked about," she said with satisfaction. "So is she!
Ha!"

"Much?" he asked coolly.

"No. The good folk are only asking each other why you meet her at the
station with your car. They think she carries antique gems in her
satchel. Later they'll suspect who the real jewel is. Ha!"

"I like her; that's why I meet her," he said coolly.

"You like her?"

"I sure do. She is some girl, dear lady."

"Do you think your pretense of guileless candour is disarming me, young
man?"

"I haven't the slightest hope of disarming you or of concealing anything
from you."

"Follows," she rejoined ironically, "that there's nothing to conceal.
Bah!"

"Quite right; there is nothing to conceal."

"What do you want with her, then?"

"Initially, I want her to catalogue my collection; subsequently, I wish
to remain friends with her. The latter wish is becoming a problem. I've
an idea that you might solve it."

"Friends with her," repeated Aunt Hannah. "Oh, my!

  "'And angels whisper
  Lo! the pretty pair!'

"I suppose! Is that the hymn-tune, James?"

"Precisely."

"What does she resemble--Venus, or Rosa Bonheur?"

"Look at her and make up your mind."

"Is she very pretty?"

"I think so. She's thin."

"Then what do you see unusual about her?"

"Everything, I think."

"Everything--he thinks! Oh, my sense of humour!"

"That," said Desboro, "is partly what I count on."

"Have you any remote and asinine notions of educating her and marrying
her, and foisting her on your friends? There are a few fools still alive
on earth, you know."

"So I've heard. I haven't the remotest idea of marrying her; she is
better fitted to educate me than I am her. Not guilty on these two
counts. But I had thought of foisting some of my friends on her. You,
for example."

Aunt Hannah glared at him--that is, her tiny eyes became almost
luminous, like the eyes of small animals at night, surprised by a sudden
light.

"I know what you're meditating!" she snapped.

"I suppose you do, by this time."

"You're very impudent. Do you know it?"

"Lord, Aunt Hannah, so are you!" he drawled. "But it takes genius to get
away with it."

The old lady was highly delighted, but she concealed it and began such a
rapid-fire tirade against him that he was almost afraid it might
bewilder him enough to affect his steering.

"Talk to me of disinterested friendship between you and a girl of that
sort!" she ended. "Not that I'd care, if I found material in her to
amuse me, and a monthly insult drawn to my order against a solvent bank
balance! What is she, James; a pretty blue-stocking whom nobody
'understands' except you?"

"Make up your own mind," he repeated, as he brought around the car and
stopped before his own doorstep. "I'm not trying to tell you anything.
She is here. Look at her. If you like her, be her friend--and mine."

Jacqueline had waited tea for him; the table was in the library, kettle
simmering over the silver lamp; and the girl was standing before the
fire, one foot on the fender, her hands loosely linked behind her back.

She glanced up with unfeigned pleasure as his step sounded outside along
the stone hallway; and the smile still remained, curving her lips, but
died out in her eyes, as Mrs. Hammerton marched in, halted, and stared
at her unwinkingly.

Desboro presented them; Jacqueline came forward, offering a shy hand to
Aunt Hannah, and, bending her superb young head, looked down into the
beady eyes which were now fairly electric with intelligence.

Desboro began, easily:

"I asked Mrs. Hammerton to have tea with----"

"I asked myself," remarked Aunt Hannah, laying her other hand over
Jacqueline's--she did not know just why--perhaps because she was vain of
her hands, as well as of her feet and "figger."

She seated herself on the sofa and drew Jacqueline down beside her.

"This young man tells me that you are cataloguing his grandfather's
accumulation of ancient tin-ware."

"Yes," said Jacqueline, already afraid of her. And the old lady divined
it, too, with not quite as much pleasure as it usually gave her to
inspire trepidation in others.

Her shrill voice was a little modified when she said:

"Where did you learn to do such things? It's not usual, you know."

"You have heard of Jean Louis Nevers," suggested Desboro.

"Yes--" Mrs. Hammerton turned and looked at the girl again. "Oh!" she
said. "I've heard Cary Clydesdale speak of you, haven't I?"

Jacqueline made a slight, very slight, but instinctive movement away
from the old lady, on whom nothing that happened was lost.

"Mr. Clydesdale," said Mrs. Hammerton, "told several people where I was
present that you knew more about antiquities in art than anybody else
in New York since your father died. That's what he said about you."

Jacqueline said: "Mr. Clydesdale has been very kind to me."

"Kindness to people is also a Clydesdale tradition--isn't it, James?"
said the old lady. "How kind Elena has always been to you!"

The covert impudence of Aunt Hannah, and her innocent countenance, had
no significance for Jacqueline--would have had no meaning at all except
for the dark flush of anger that mounted so suddenly to Desboro's
forehead.

He said steadily: "The Clydesdales are very old friends, and are
naturally kind. Why you don't like them I never understood."

"Perhaps you can understand why one of them doesn't like me, James."

"Oh! I can understand why many people are not crazy about you, Aunt
Hannah," he said, composedly.

"Which is going some," said the old lady, with a brisk and unabashed
employment of the vernacular. Then, turning to Jacqueline: "Are you
going to give this young man some tea, my child? He requires a tonic."

Jacqueline rose and seated herself at the table, thankful to escape. Tea
was soon ready; Aunt Hannah, whose capacity for browsing was infinite,
began on jam and biscuits without apology. And Jacqueline and Desboro
exchanged their first furtive glances--dismayed and questioning on the
girl's part, smilingly reassuring on Desboro's. Aunt Hannah, looking
intently into her teacup, missed nothing.

"Come to see me!" she said so abruptly that even Desboro started.



"I--I beg your pardon," said Jacqueline, not understanding.

"Come to see me in town. I've a rotten little place in a fashionable
apartment house--one of the Park Avenue kind, which they number instead
of calling it the 'Buena Vista' or the 'Hiawatha.' Will you come?"

"Thank you."

The old lady looked at her grimly:

"What does 'thank you' mean? Yes or no? Because I really want you. Don't
you wish to come?"

"I would be very glad to come--only, you know, I am in business--and go
out very little----"

"Except on business," added Desboro, looking Aunt Hannah unblushingly in
the eye until she wanted to pinch him. Instead, she seized another
biscuit, which Farris presented on a tray, smoking hot, and applied jam
to it vigorously. After she had consumed it, she rose and marched around
the room, passing the portraits and book shelves in review. Half turning
toward Jacqueline:

"I haven't been in the musty old mansion for years; that young man never
asks me. But I used to know the house. It was this sort of house that
drove me out of Westchester, and I vowed I'd marry a New York man or
nobody. Do you know, child, that there is a sort of simpering smugness
about a house like this that makes me inclined to kick dents in the
furniture?"

Jacqueline ventured to smile; Desboro's smile responded in sympathy.

"I'm going home," announced Aunt Hannah. "Good-bye, Miss Nevers. I don't
want you to drive me, James; I'd rather have your man take me back.
Besides, you've a train to catch, I understand----" She turned and
looked at Jacqueline, who had risen, and they stood silently inspecting
each other. Then, with a grim nod, as though partly of comprehension,
partly in adieu, Aunt Hannah sailed out. Desboro tucked her in beside
Vail. The latter being quite deaf, they talked freely under his very
nose.

"James!"

"Yes, dear lady."

"You gave yourself away about Elena Clydesdale. Haven't you any
control over your countenance?"

"Sometimes. But don't do that again before her! The story is a lie,
anyway."

"So I've heard--from you. Tell me, James, do you think this little
Nevers girl dislikes me?"

"Do you want her to?"

"No. You're a very clever young one, aren't you? Really quite an expert!
Do you know, I don't think that girl would care for what I might have to
offer her. There's more to her than to most people."

"How do you know? She scarcely spoke a word."

The old lady laughed scornfully:

"I know people by what they don't say. That's why I know you so much
better than you think I do--you and Elena Clydesdale. And I don't
think you're much good, James--or some of your married friends, either."

She settled down among the robes, with a bright, impertinent glance at
him. He shrugged, standing bareheaded by the mud-guard, a lithe,
handsome young fellow. "--A Desboro all over," she thought, with a
mental sniff of admiration.

"Are you going to speak to Miss Nevers?" she asked, abruptly.

"About what!"

"About employing me, you idiot!"

"Yes, if you like. If she comes up here as my guest, she'll need a
gorgon."

"I'll gorgon you," she retorted, wrathfully.

"Thanks. So you'll accept the--er--job?"

"Of course, if she wishes. I need the money. It's purely mercenary on my
part."

"That's understood."

"Are you going to tell her I'm mercenary?"

"Naturally."

"Well, then--don't--if you don't mind. Do you think I want every
living creature to detest me?"

"I don't detest you. And you have an unterrified tabby-cat at home,
haven't you?"

She could have boxed his ears as he leaned over and deliberately kissed
her cheek.

"I love you because you're so bad," he whispered; and, stepping lightly
aside, nodded to Vail to go ahead.

The limousine, acetylenes shining, rolled up as the other car departed.
He went back to the library and found Jacqueline pinning on her hat.

"Well?" he inquired gaily.

"Why did you bring her, Mr. Desboro?"

"Didn't you like her?"

"Who is she?"

"A Mrs. Hannah Hammerton. She knows everybody. Most people are afraid of
her. She's poor as a guinea-pig."

"She was beautifully gowned."

"She always is. Poor Aunt Hannah!"

"Is she your aunt?"

"No, she's Lindley Hammerton's aunt--a neighbour of mine. I call her
that; it made her very mad in the beginning, but she rather likes it
now. You'll go to call on her, won't you?"

Jacqueline turned to him, drawing on her gloves:

"Mr. Desboro, I don't wish to be rude; and, anyway, she will forget that
she asked me in another half-hour. Why should I go to see her?"

"Because she's one species of gorgon. Now, do you understand?"

"What!"

"Of course. It isn't a case of pin-money with her; it's a case of
clothing, rent, and nourishment. A microscopic income, supplemented by
gifts, commissions, and odd social jobs, keeps her going. What you and I
want of her is for her to be seen at various times with you. She'll do
the rest in talking about you--'my unusually talented young friend, Miss
Nevers,' and that sort of thing. It will deceive nobody; but you'll
eventually meet some people--she knows all kinds. The main point is that
when I ask you here she'll bring you. People will understand that you
are another of her social enterprises, for which she's paid. But it
won't count against you. It will depend on yourself entirely how you are
received. And not a soul will be able to say a word--" he laughed,
"--except that I am very devoted to the beautiful Miss Nevers--as
everybody else will be."

Jacqueline remained motionless for a few moments, an incomprehensible
expression on her face; then she went over to him and took one of his
hands in her gloved ones, and stood looking down at it in silence.

"Well," he asked, smiling.

She said, still looking down at his hand lying between her own:

"You have behaved in the sweetest way to me--" Her voice grew unsteady,
and she turned her head sharply away.

"Jacqueline!" he exclaimed under his breath. "It's a broken reed you're
trusting. Don't, dear. I'm like all the others."

She shook her head slightly, still looking away from him. After a short
silence, her voice returned to her control again.

"You are very kind to me, Mr. Desboro. When a man sees that a girl likes
him--and is kind to her--it is wonderful to her."

He tried to take a lighter tone.

"It's the case of the beast born in captivity, Jacqueline. I'm only
going through the tricks convention has taught me. But every instinct
remains unaltered."

"That is civilisation, isn't it?"

"Oh, I don't know what it is--you wonderful little thing!"

He caught her hand, then encircled her waist, drawing her close. After a
moment, she dropped her big, fluffy muff on his shoulder and hid her
flushed face in the fur.

"Don't trust me, will you?" he said, bluntly.

"No."

"Because I--I'm an unaccountable beast."

"We--both have to account--sometime--to somebody. Don't we?" she said in
a muffled voice.

"That would never check me."

"It would--me."

"Spiritual responsibility?"

"Yes."

"Is that all?"

"What else is there to remember--when a girl--cares for a man."

"Do you really care very much?"

Perhaps she considered the question superfluous, for she remained silent
until his nerveless arm released her. Then she lifted her face from the
muff. It was pale but smiling when he met her eyes.

"I'll go to see Mrs. Hammerton, some day," she said, "because it would
hurt too much not to be able to come here when you ask me--and other
people--like the--the Clydesdales. You were thinking of me when you
thought of this, weren't you?"

"In a way. A girl has got to reckon with what people say."

She nodded, pale and expressionless, slowly brushing up the violets
fastened to her muff.

Farris appeared, announced the time, and held Desboro's coat. They had
just margin enough to make their train.




CHAPTER IX


The following morning, Aunt Hannah returned to her tiny apartment on
Park Avenue, financially benefitted by her Westchester sojourn, having
extracted a bolt of Chinese loot-silk for a gown from her nephew's
dismayed wife, and the usual check from her nephew.

Lindley, a slow, pallid, and thrifty soul, had always viewed Aunt
Hannah's event with unfeigned alarm, because, somehow or other, at the
close of every visit he found himself presenting her with a check. And
it almost killed him.

Years ago he had done it for the first time. He had never intended to;
certainly never meant to continue. Every time she appeared he vowed to
himself that he wouldn't. But before her visit ended, the pressure of
custom became too much for him; a deadly sense of obligation toward this
dreadful woman--of personal responsibility for her indigence--possessed
him, became gradually an obsession, until he exorcised it by the present
of a check.

She never spoke of it--never seemed to hint at it--always seemed
surprised and doubtful of accepting; but some devilish spell certainly
permeated the atmosphere in her immediate vicinity, drawing perfectly
good money out of his innermost and tightly buttoned breast-pockets and
leaving it certified and carelessly crumpled in her velvet reticule.

It happened with a sickening regularity which now he had come to view
with the modified internal fury of resignation. It had simply become a
terrible custom, and, with all his respectable inertia and thrifty
caution, adherence to custom ruled Lindley Hammerton. For years he had
pinched roses; for years he had drawn checks for Aunt Hannah. Nothing
but corporeal dissolution could terminate these customs.

As for Aunt Hannah, she banked her check and had her bolt of silk made
into a gown, and trotted briskly about her business with perennial
self-confidence in her own ability to get on.

Once or twice during the following fortnight she remembered Jacqueline,
and mentally tabulated her case as a possible source of future income;
but social duties were many and acridly agreeable, and pecuniary
pickings plenty. Up to her small, thin ears in intrigue, harmless and
not quite so harmless, she made hay busily while the social sun shone;
and it was near the end of February before a stagnation in pleasure and
business brought Jacqueline's existence into her mind again.

She called up Silverwood, and eventually got Desboro on the wire.

"Do you know," she said, "that your golden-headed and rather attenuated
inamorata has never had the civility to call on me!"

"She has been too busy."

"Too busy gadding about Silverwood with you!"

"She hasn't been here since you saw her."

"What!"

"It's quite true. An important collection is to be sold under the hammer
on the premises; she had the contract to engineer that matter before she
undertook to catalogue my stuff."

"Oh! Haven't you seen her since?"

"Yes."

"Not at Silverwood?"

"No, only at her office."

He could hear her sniff and mutter something, then:

"I thought you were going to give some parties at Silverwood, and ask me
to bring your pretty friend," she said.

"I am. She has the jades and crystals to catalogue. What I want, as soon
as she gets rid of Clydesdale, is for her to resume work here--come up
and remain as my guest until the cataloguing is finished. So you see
I'll have to have you, too."

"That's a cordial and disinterested invitation, James!"

"Will you come? I'll ask half a dozen people. You can kill a few at
cards, too."

"When?"

"The first Thursday in March. It's a business proposition, but it's
between you and me, and she is not to suspect it."

"Very well," said Aunt Hannah cheerfully. "I'll arrange my engagements
accordingly. And do try to have a gay party, James; and don't ask the
Clydesdales. You know how Westchester gets on my nerves. And I always
hated her."

"You are very unjust to her and to him----"

"You can't tell me anything about Cary Clydesdale, or about his wife,
either," she interrupted tartly, and rang off in a temper. And Desboro
went back to his interrupted business with Vail.

Since Jacqueline had been compelled to suspend temporarily her inventory
at Silverwood in favor of prior engagements, Desboro had been to the
city only twice, and both times to see her.

He had seen her in her office, remained on both occasions for an hour
only, and had then taken the evening train back to Silverwood. But every
evening he had written her of the day just ended--told her about the
plans for farming, now maturing, of the quiet life at Silverwood, how
gradually he was reëstablishing neighbourly relations with the
countryside, how much of a country squire he was becoming.

