And yet, in saying that chivalry has disappeared, I am in error. Not
later than the week before last a cousin of mine, a young man truly
charming, married a monster.”
He pushed aside his plate. “Well, then, Léopold, am I to sit here the
entire day?”
Serviceably, a buvard in his hand, the waiter approached. “I have
subventioned a new pen for the use of monsieur le baron.”
“There, Léopold, your sins are remitted. See at once if the chasseur is
free.”
De Fresnoy looked at Silverstairs. “With your permission, in our joint
names, I write.”
He looked at Verplank. “Will you pardon me if I ask how your name is
spelled?”
Verplank, getting at his case, extracted a card.
De Fresnoy glanced at it. Then, taking that new pen, he read, as he
wrote, aloud.
    M. le Comte Barouffski.
    Monsieur: M. Verplank has requested the Earl of Silverstairs
    and myself to arrive at an understanding with two of your
    friends concerning an incident which occurred last evening in
    the Avenue Cours la Reine.
    Lord Silverstairs and I will be obliged if, as soon as
    possible, you will ask one of your friends to appoint a meeting
    at which we may deliberate.
    Receive, Monsieur, the expression of my distinguished
    sentiments.
    Baron de Fresnoy
He looked over at Silverstairs. “Is that to your liking? Good! We will
send it to the Little Club where the answer is to be left and we will
have a reply to-day. En attendant, there are matters that claim me.”
With a movement of the chin he summoned the waiter.
A little byplay followed; the presentation of the bill, the click of
gold on porcelain, the carelessly gathered change, the meagre tip, the
reappearance of the hat, the bowing waiters, the craning necks, and the
departure of de Fresnoy, an umbrella under his arm, a cigar between his
teeth.
Verplank, emptying a glass of Chablis, looked out of the window. A
panorama was forming. He saw the room at Coronado, Leilah as she told
him of her love, his brief absence, his harrowing return, the hunt for
her that had extended over half the globe, a hunt that divorce had not
terminated, which her re-marriage had not stopped and which, had he
not at last discovered her, nothing could have stayed save his death
or hers or the reason of the implacable Why. An obstacle to the Why
or, it might be, the incarnation of it, was Barouffski, and Verplank
saw himself standing somewhere with Barouffski before him. There was a
command, the call of numbers, a detonation and the sight of Barouffski
turning, swaying, falling down.
The panorama faded. A picture had appeared. Before the window, arrested
by a congestion of traffic, a motor was stopping. In it and the mist
was Leilah.
Verplank sprang to his feet. With the idea of going out to her there
and forcing an explanation, he looked about for his hat.
Silverstairs also got up. He had not seen. He too was looking for his
hat. Placidly he remarked:
“I have an appointment with a chap named Tempest. Will you come with
me?”
But now, the congestion relieved, the motor shot on. Verplank had the
spectacle of a face fading instantly in the fog and the future.
“Will you?” Silverstairs repeated.
“Will I what?”
“I have to see a man about a horse. He lives just off the Bois de
Boulogne, in the rue de la Pompe. Will you come up there with me?”
“Yes, if you will go on foot. In that case I’ll leave you there and
walk back. I need the exercise. I feel like what you described as a
fidgety Frenchman.”
Silverstairs pulled at his moustache. “It’s no end of a walk. But no
matter, I’ll go with you.”
VI
That morning Leilah had two appointments, one with a modiste, the other
with Violet Silverstairs. She did not feel equal to either. The episode
of the previous evening had been to her like the supreme torture which
medieval legislation devised. It was all she could bear--and more!
When, abruptly, she found herself face to face with Verplank, it was
as though she were confronted by the dead. The sense of it numbed her,
and the numbness was heightened by a horror that has no name. Into the
seats of thought there entered the realisation that, in spite of all,
she still loved him, that in spite of all he still loved her. In the
core of these convictions fear entered, fear of him, fear of herself,
a sensation of common peril and mutual perdition so blinding that
Barouffski’s rudeness she barely noticed, and it was with a look the
damned may have that she saw Verplank turn with Violet Silverstairs,
and go.
As they passed, Barouffski, with the air of one commenting on a
triviality, remarked:
“How odd it is that the Joyeuses should care to hobnob with demi-castors.
Shall we go?”
That demi-castors meant bounders generally, and, in this instance,
specifically, she would, ordinarily, have been insufficiently familiar
with the slang of the boulevards to know. But she did not hear.
Moreover, the remark required no reply. Even otherwise she was unable
to speak, and it was not until Barouffski reiterated his suggestion
that mechanically she acceded to it with a movement of the head.
Her demeanor then in traversing the salons, her leave-taking of the
duchess, her bearing in descending the stairs, were as mechanical as
her reply to Barouffski, and it was not until after the motor had
dropped him, as he had asked that it should, at the door of the Little
Club, that, at last alone, the mental anchylosis fell by.
At once in a sort of retrograde vision, she relived the past. There
had been the flight from Coronado, the halt at Salt Lake, the descent
into Nevada, the divorce, the journey abroad, the platonic marriage
to Barouffski. These--the succeeding episodes in the drama of her
life--were so many hostages to joy, barricades thrown one after another
between Verplank and herself, and unavailingly thrown, since, with but
a look, they were almost destroyed.
They had seemed wholly impregnable, but she knew then that unless
reinforced by surer bars, they would one and all collapse. At the
foreknowledge of that she appreciated what the heroines in the old
tragedies endured, when circled by the seven-times-twisted coil of
fate. Yet, though they had yielded, she would not yield, and it was
with this determination that she alighted in the rue de la Pompe.
The house there had a church for neighbour, and stood between a court
and a garden. Before the court was a high, white wall. The garden
extended back to the parallel street, where, also, was a wall. The
entrance to the court was a double doorway, the entrance to the garden
was an iron gate. Between the gate and the house were large urns,
a marble bench, a marble chair, most noticeably the kennels of two
mastiffs, pets of Barouffski who, at whatever hour he returned at
night, had them loosed. They were, he declared, a great protection, as
indeed they were--for him. Apart from the occasional barking of these
dogs, barring also occasional music from the church, usually the garden
was quiet. But that was in the order of things. It lacked both stable
and garage. These had been secured elsewhere.
Except for that detail, the arrangements generally were satisfactory.
The house was commodious, agreeably furnished. On the ground floor were
the usual offices, beneath which the servants slept. On the floor above
were the salons and dining hall. Above these were the bedrooms. On this
upper floor the apartment which Barouffski occupied gave on the street,
while Leilah’s overlooked the garden.
Adjacent to her suite was a stairway designed for servants, but which,
because of its convenience, she occasionally used. It led directly to
the dining hall, and from there she could descend into the garden.
It had a superior advantage. It enabled her to avoid the hazards of the
main stairway, which was used by Barouffski, whom nearer acquaintance
had discovered to her without the mask--without one mask, that is--for
histrion that he was, he had many, but the best, the feigned nobility
of noble pride, the assumed parage, had gone.
In its place was a smile, constant, equivocal, ambiguous, a smile such
as the consciously damned may display. It gave Leilah little creeps.
She dreaded it, dreaded him, dreaded both, what is worse she dreaded
instinctively, without knowing why. The man was amiable, serviceable,
gallant. He wore his domino not faultlessly perhaps but with the fine
air of a bravo who, when the time comes, will knife you, yes, but who
in so doing will rather require that you admire the chasing on the
handle of the blade. As yet the knife was concealed. But Leilah felt
that it was there. He knew it was. Occasionally he fingered the point.
Hitherto he had lived by expedients. A golden six had been tossed him.
He had pocketed it. For him the economic problem of life was solved.
He asked little else, merely that the solution should endure and that
his dignity, of which he had a humorous conception, be outwardly
preserved. In addition to his dignity, or to his idea of it, he had
another attribute. He was not exacting. It is a great charm in any one.
But with him it did not extend to money. Freely he demanded it, freely
she gave and it was precisely when he demanded it that she felt, and he
felt, too, the point of the knife.
On this evening when, after the usual din at the doors, the motor
entered the court and she alighted at the perron, two footmen busied
themselves in aiding her.
Leilah passed through the dining room to the garden where for a while
she walked along the path that led from the house to the gate.
The garden was cloistered, the night serene. The influences of both
affected her. The darkness put her thoughts into relief, the solitude
relaxed the tension of her nerves.
Another thing was helpful, the determination which she had reached,
though for that determination to be maintained there must, she saw, be
further hostages, new barricades. But what further hostages could she
give she wondered, what firmer barricades was it possible to erect?
Barring flight or an appeal to Verplank, some message begging him to
leave Paris, she could not imagine any. Flight she had already tried,
but not flight to some one of the world’s far away places where any
one may be lost forever. It was a miserably dismal thing to do, she
reflected, a thing so dismal and so miserable that she doubted her
ability to do it.
As she thought it over she wondered if in some former existence she
could have injured Verplank and whether it were by way of retribution
that he had the power to tempt and torture her now. Tenets of this
character the Vidyâ advanced and as she had told Tempest, she had
come to believe in that Scripture as many do in the Bible, though as
many also do without being able to accept it entirely, without being
able to accept for instance stories such as that of Jonah and the
whale which none the less all would accept were it known how profound
is the symbolism behind them. With like reservations, Leilah accepted
the Vidyâ. She was very ignorant as women in her station generally
are and the reservations were due to that ignorance and also to the
demand which the doctrine made on her imagination. But though she was
ignorant she was conscious of it and consciousness of ignorance is
usually the condition precedent to enlightenment.
Now, in considering the episode of the evening, she asked herself
whether she was warranted in accepting this creed of past lives. At the
Joyeuses, during the announcements of resonant names, Tempest had said
that unless we swallow the ridiculous dogma of a soul specially created
at every birth and unless too we are indecent enough to fancy the Deity
waiting for that purpose on the passions and caprices of man, we have
to accept it, have to accept with it the corollary of past actions
and their consequences, have to accept, too, the deduction that,
in accordance with our past actions, it is we who reward or punish
ourselves, we who become avenging furies or angels of light.
Leilah wished that she could have discussed the matter more fully
with Tempest yet she felt that what he had said was logical, but if
it were true, then the parallel doctrine that all misdeeds and with
them all misfortunes spring from desire must be true also, in which
case, before their consequences can be effaced, all misdeeds must be
atoned. But how can they be atoned? she asked herself. Presently she
remembered. According to the Vidyâ, any desire no matter what, desire
for pleasure, for gain, for attainments, for honours, even the desire
for spiritual perfection, even the desire for the lack of desire, must
be extinguished before old scores are paid. That was the way she saw,
the only way. The debtor must sacrifice himself to himself.
But, uncertain still, she went over the matter again, putting to it
little tests, passably naïf yet serviceable to her. She had ardently
desired to marry Verplank, then, desiring as ardently a barricade
against him, she had married Barouffski. In the one case the result had
been catastrophic; in the other, calamitous. Doubtless she had sinned
in the past and these disasters, brought about by her own desires,
were her punishment. There were other things that she had desired. She
had wanted to be loved, she had wanted to be thought a beauty, and not
only her love had shamed her but soon she might be ashamed to show
her face. At the thought of these things she realised anew and more
profoundly than ever that selfish desire is the root of evil and that
only in its extirpation may peace be had. But coincidently she realised
also that any such extirpation was beyond her. Heredity, environment,
the circumstances of her life, had given an impetus to desire which
she could not arrest. She liked wealth, ease, pretty clothes, becoming
hats, the society of agreeable people. She liked the world and in
liking it she feared that she liked also the flesh, it might be even
that she liked, too, the devil. Yet, she must not, she knew.
In telling herself that, she thought of the Church. The Church was so
much more comfortable. There you were not asked impossibilities, the
one requirement was to throw yourself in her arms and repent. As the
facile process occurred to her she recalled George Moore’s story of
Evelyn Innes. That masterwork seemed to tell her to do as the heroine
had done and go in a convent.
Perhaps she might, she thought. Perhaps she must.
Several times already she had crossed and recrossed the garden. Now she
found herself at the farther end facing the iron gate. Leilah opened
it, walked to the corner and returned.
The little tentative evasion had been successful. At any time, unseen
even by a servant, she could leave the house, disappear utterly, be
forever ingulfed. But the knowledge that she could escape into darkness
and be lost there, offered little more than a choice between tears. It
presented a form of suicide which was superior only to actual death.
She hoped she might be spared it. She hoped an appeal to Verplank would
suffice, though in what manner it could best reach him, or, for that
matter, reach him at all, she found it difficult to decide. To make it
personally was impossible. To attempt it through Violet Silverstairs
would involve an explanation and that was impossible also. The idea
of employing one of her women occurred to her. There were manifest
objections to such a course, though the particular woman whom she had
in view she trusted entirely.
Slowly she returned to the house and went to her room. There, when at
last the servants had gone and she was alone, she knelt on a prie-dieu
and, to the Watchers of the Seven Spheres, prayed for the earthly peace
of her soul and of his. She knew that no prayer could affect them, she
knew that they are not to be propitiated or coerced, but it soothed
her as prayer, in raising the vibrations, does soothe the distressed.
The prayer concluded she began another. She prayed that sometime she
might be somewhere, on some plane, where all things broken are made
complete and found again things vanished.
Then, the solace of it still upon her, suddenly she saw by what the
prayer had been induced. The consciousness confused and presently,
in the melancholy sotto-voce of thought, she told herself that to
extinguish that desire, she would have to be in Dharmakaya--the mystic
state where there is oblivion of all things here.
“Here!” she caught herself repeating. For, at once, a passage from the
Upanishads prompting, she remembered that here means Myalba, which is
hell, the greatest of all hells and, for those of this evolution, the
only hell there is.
VII
It was on the morning succeeding these incidents that Leilah felt
unequal for the appointments she had made. But however she felt, she
always did what she had planned. In this instance nature punished her.
On the way to the first appointment, a malaise overtook her, enveloped
her, beat at her and although, gradually, it fell by, she was still
conscious of it when, in the rue Cambon, the motor stopped at the
modiste’s door.
“The fitting of madame la comtesse Barouffska!” a fair young girl in
black immediately and authoritatively announced.
Before landscapes of silk, in the delight of new modes, customers were
sunning themselves. At the announcement they turned, while Leilah,
conducted by another girl who had advanced to meet her, crossed the
laboratory of enchantments and entered an adjoining room.
But, for the moment, the fitting was delayed. The première was
elsewhere occupied. When presently she appeared she excitedly
exclaimed:
“I hope I have not detained madame. I am desolated if I have. But!
But! If madame knew! One is literally torn to pieces! All day long it
is nothing but Ernestine that dress! Ernestine, that robe! Ernestine,
that costume! Ernestine this! Ernestine that! Truly madame, there are
moments when I say I die! I go crazy!”
Abruptly dropping her voice, she added: “But pardon, I monologue.”
At once, indicating a gown which an assistant had brought, she
exclaimed again:
“It will ravishingly become madame.”
The gown, a work of the best Parisian art, suggested something of the
immateriality of a moonbeam, and as the assistant, a girl with a tired
face and circled eyes, held it for inspection, it gleamed.
Leilah looked at it, wondering the while where she would wear it,
whether indeed she would wear it at all. Then, before a sheet that had
been placed on the floor and on which the assistant arranged the gown
in a circle she proceeded to undress.
To the amateur in feminine beauty, there are few spectacles more
attractive than that of an attractive woman clothed in lingerie and a
hat. This spectacle Leilah presented.
The première exclaimed at it. “Madame la comtesse has a figure truly
divine. But! But! Who could have laced her?”
“I was not very well this morning,” Leilah replied. “I told my women
not to make me too tight. But you can take me in I think about an inch.”
“Marguerite,” said the première, “draw the stays a little closer.”
The girl with the tired face undid the corset and pulled at the
strings. But she pulled awkwardly, perhaps too suddenly.
Leilah gasped, turned, sat down and fell forward. The première hurried
to her. She had fainted.
“The smelling salts!” the première cried. “The smelling salts! Cognac!
Get some cognac!”
With one hand she was supporting Leilah, with the other she gesticulated
at Marguerite who, hurriedly from the mantel, fetched a vinaigrette
which Ernestine then took and sniffed at.
“She’s coming to,” said the assistant.
Ernestine waved the vinaigrette. “The gods be praised!”
For Leilah now had opened her eyes. Wearily she looked about,
straightened herself and sighed.
“I must have fainted.”
“It is nothing madame,” Ernestine anxiously protested. “Truly nothing
and yet so modish. Yesterday the Princesse de Solférino fainted. The
day before it was the turn of the young Duchesse de Malakoff. Such a
good augury for these ladies! Like them madame is perhaps----”
But Leilah now was making an effort to rise.
Abandoning the vinaigrette Ernestine aided her.
“Madame will perhaps wish the fitting postponed. Yes, is it not? It
might further fatigue madame. To-morrow--no, to-morrow I regret but
in the afternoon I have three appointments and in the morning there
is the trousseau of Miss Smith of New York who is to marry an English
lord. Marguerite!” she interrupted herself to exclaim. “The costume of
madame!”
Then, as the assistant also assisted Leilah, reflectively the première
resumed:
“I hear that every New York young lady loves a lord. But----”
She hesitated. Visibly the vision evoked, confused. Yet, after a
second’s pause, rallying, she continued.
“Perhaps it is not every New York young lady who has a lord to love.
Perhaps many of them love the same lord.”
Discreetly she smiled. “And that must be so nice for him!”
Considering Leilah, she concluded:
“But another day----”
Of it all, Leilah heard but that. “Yes,” she answered, “another day.”
Then, presently, after more attentions, the première accompanied her to
the door.
“Rue François Premier,” Leilah told the groom.
The machine shot ahead. Arrested shortly by a congestion of traffic, it
halted before a window behind which Verplank and Silverstairs sat.
Leilah, unconscious of their presence, gazed at the murky cinematograph
of the street, filled at this hour with faces sordid, petulant,
indifferent, or frankly gay; with the passing forms of workmen, idlers,
shopgirls, vagabonds; the swarming Parisian crowd which did not, she
believed, contain one soul as miserable as her own.
The congestion relieved, the motor shot on. Leilah leaned back. It was
not so long ago that she was on her way from New York to Coronado. She
was happy then, happy with a happiness so perfect that it lifted her
into the ultimate ecstasies which love and life comport. It was not so
long ago, only six short months, only that brief eternity of sorrow
which, unended yet, had been the damning penalty of that joy.
“In this life ye shall have tribulation,” the Christ had said, and
truly said, and as she rememorated the significant menace, she wondered
whether for such as she, tribulation ended here. But her creed assured
her. From the Vidyâ she had acquired faith in fate, the belief rather
that we make our own destiny, that it is by our own hands that our
lives are cast in places pleasant or the reverse, that our conduct
in one life creates the conditions of our existence in another, that
anything experienced now is the effect of a cause set going in the
past, that happiness is the recompense of beneficence, deformity the
result of cruelty, melancholy the penalty of evil thoughts. But whether
retribution pursued its victim into future planes or abandoned them
when they died, depended, she also believed, on how they faced it here,
and it was in this idea that, during the unended sorrow, she had found
the strength to bear its coils.
The motor stopped. She told the groom to wait. Presently she was among
the subdued tints and harmonised furnishings of the drawing room of her
friend.
At once, clearly in her limpid voice, considering her with brilliant
eyes, Violet Silverstairs aimed and fired.
“You’re a liar!”
At the shot Leilah attempted to smile, and though she failed, it was
not because she fancied there could be any reproach in the term, but
because latterly she had been unable to smile at all.
“You’re a liar,” Violet repeated. “Also, you are late.”
“I know I am late and I am sorry,” Leilah withdrawing her gloves,
replied. “But how am I a liar?”
“Come to luncheon and you will precious soon find out. I had some eggs
for you, eggs à l’Aurore Boréale. I had a sweetbread. I had--I have
forgotten what else. Now I have nothing. Everything is spoiled.”
Violet Silverstairs was perhaps imaginative. There were eggs, very good
eggs too, though whether prepared in the Aurora Borealis fashion is
perhaps beside the issue. Moreover there was a sweetbread, one that had
been germinated on salt meadows and which was not spoiled in the least.
In addition there were the other things which she had forgotten and
all of them appetising in the extreme. It was an excellent luncheon,
perfectly served in a beautiful room. But it was a luncheon for
Sybarites, not for the suffering. After the first morsel Leilah was
unable to eat.
“Where is Silverstairs?” she asked when that morsel had been consumed.
“With your ex.”
Leilah put down her fork. “With Gulian?”
Violet laughed. “Have you more than one? But it was just through him
that your lie cropped out. Last night he swore by bell, book and candle
that you had never told him why you cut and ran.”
It was at this juncture that Leilah found herself unable to eat.
Instantly her mind shot back. She was at Coronado again, in the
sunshine and frippery of her sitting room. She could see Verplank as
he left it, see the letters that had been brought, see herself as
she opened one of them, that one which with its enclosures she had
redirected and left for him. The possibility never before conjectured,
that he had not received it girdled her with a zone of ice. For a
moment she looked fixedly at one of the windows through which the
pale daylight fell. In the beautiful room, companioned by her nearest
friend, she felt that sense of utter loneliness which in the great
crises of life is experienced by all. Yet was it true?
“Violet!” she cried. “You are jesting.”
But the lady, determined then or never to learn the truth, cocked an
eye at her. “I am not, nor was he.”
At that, Leilah felt the girdle of ice sending its shivers through her.
The plan she had made must, she saw, be foregone. If Verplank did not
know why she had separated from him, never would he leave Paris until
he did. But what must he have thought, she agonisedly reflected, and
what must he think!
Violet, who had been watching her, said:
“Why don’t you tell me?”
Leilah taking up her fork again, tried for countenance sake, to affect
to eat. The effort was beyond her. She put it down.
“I can’t,” she at last replied.
Violet, her brilliant eye still cocked, almost winked.
“Yes, you said that before. But you see, don’t you know, that whether
you can or cannot tell me, you will have to tell him and, in the
circumstances, would it not be best to have me do it for you? To be
sure, if you had taken my advice and omitted to marry Barouffski, I
would say, have it out with him yourself. But your marriage does not
seem to have simplified matters, which, so far as I can make out, are
now pretty thoroughly mixed.”
The lady spoke better than she knew. Matters were complicated
though how profoundly she had no idea, nor was Leilah aware that the
situation, already tortuous, was to become even more intricately
labyrinthine.
“Of course,” Violet, in her bell-like voice, threw out, “after running
away, getting a divorce and marrying another man, I can fancy that you
don’t much want to see him. But, really, you owe it to yourself to give
the reason, particularly as it is he who is to blame.”
At this, Leilah, who had been looking down into her prison, looked up.
“I never said so.”
“No, but was it necessary? Even nowadays, even in the States, a woman
does not cut and run because butter won’t melt in her husband’s mouth.
She does so because she has, or thinks she has, a grievance and the
man, if he is a man, ought to be given an opportunity to apologise,
however imaginary the grievance may be.”
Leilah shook her head. “There can be no apology here.”
Violet laughed. “That is just what I would say if I had gone and done
it. Then it would be for Silverstairs to try on his knees to get me to
listen to one--provided, of course, that in the interim I had not taken
over another man, for in that case I verily believe he would wring my
neck. But you need fear nothing of the sort from Verplank. He seemed
anxious only to wring Barouffski’s.”
Leilah made another futile effort with her fork. Absently she answered:
“I don’t believe he knew who he was.”
“You don’t! After his telling him! But, apropos, what became of d’Arcy?
I thought you and he were safely tucked away in a corner, otherwise
never in the world would I have marched your Number One up to your
Number Two.”
“D’Arcy!” Leilah repeated. She had barely heard. She scarcely knew what
she was saying, still less what was being said.
“Yes, le beau d’Arcy. Marie de Fresnoy told me that the other day at
the races he was about to pay a ragamuffin of a girl for a flower, when
she said: ‘I’d rather you kissed me.’ Fancy that! She told me too that
a man who had a husband’s reasons for wanting to kill him, was afraid
to say a word. It appears he is a dead shot. But it appears also that
your lovely Barouffski is one of the best swordsmen here. Verplank had
better look out. To return though to our Chablis Moutonne. What will
you do?”
Leilah, her thoughts afar, made no reply.
“What will you do?” Violet repeated.
From afar the question floated, descended, trod among the tender
places of Leilah’s soul. At the pain of it she winced. “God help me, I
do not know.”
Violet, cocking an eye again, insinuated: “Let me take a hand.” She
paused, then, for clincher, threw out: “He dines here to-morrow.”
“Here!” Leilah exclaimed, half rising, fearful now that at any moment
he might appear. “Here! With you?”
Violet nodded. “Why yes. Why not? If I can’t confess you, perhaps I can
him. At any rate I can try. You can’t blame me for wanting to, either.
You abandoned him on your honeymoon. You won’t tell me why and he says
he don’t know. But he must suspect. He must have concluded that you
left him for this, that or the other. I want to find out what his this,
that and the other are and then make my own selection. It is true he
did say that it was because of Barouffski. But that’s all gammon. You
never saw Barouffski until you got here. There is something else and
what that is I want to find out. No, you can’t blame me. It is the
instinct of self-preservation. If I don’t get at the bottom of it soon,
I shall simply go mad.”
A laugh, clear and musical, wound up the lady’s chatter. She had no
more idea of going mad than she had of jumping out of the window. But
she wanted to know and that was only human.
But now, Leilah, who a moment before had half risen, stood up. “Violet,
I am not well, you must let me go. Yes,” she added as the lady remarked
that on the morrow she might appear in the rue de la Pompe. “Yes, yes.”
She would have said yes to anything. Hurriedly she got away.
Without the motor waited.
“Home,” she told the groom.
A little before she had thought herself the most miserable of
beings. But however deep the hell, there is always a deeper one. Add
uncertainty to distress and the sum of it is sorrow multiplied by the
infinite. That hell, that sorrow was or seemed to be, hers. She did not
know where to go, what to do, to whom to turn.
The pitiable plan of flight returned to her. Again she put it aside.
She could not adopt it now. Besides, though she owed a duty to herself,
she owed another to Verplank. In what manner he had failed to receive
the letter, it was impossible for her to imagine, but the fact that he
had not received it, hurt her doubly, hurt her for herself, hurt her
for him. Had it reached him, both would have been spared this pass.
But it had not reached him and since then what must he have thought of
her? What!
The query, which kept repeating itself, tortured her and on that
torture was superposed the precarious problem of his enlightenment.
See him she could not. To write was beyond her ability. For there are
things no pen should write as there are others no tongue should tell.
None the less the truth she knew must reach him and would do so best,
she thought, through some channel similar to that from which the letter
had proceeded, from a source either indifferent or inimical to them
both.
At the auto-suggestion, her thoughts fluttered, scattered, grouped,
then suddenly regrouping, produced a name. Beneath her breath she
uttered it.
“Barouffski!”
It was not in provision of this that she had married him. At the
time no such possibility had even impossibly loomed. But she had
married him precisely as she had obtained a divorce, in order to
barricade the future from the past; in order also for the fleshpots
which she craved--peace and security. She had not had much of either.
None the less, the primary object which she had sought had, in its
accomplishment, persisted. He was a barricade. He was her official and
paid protector.
For the task therefore which she could not perform, he seemed naturally
indicated. What alone gave her pause was the certainty that he would
enjoy it. She could see him, see his ambiguous smile, see his green
eyes aglow, his cruel and sensual mouth distended.
From the picture she turned. Beyond was a church, the frontal draped
with black. The motor had stopped. It had reached the house in the rue
de la Pompe and pending the opening of the doors, whirred as it blocked
the sidewalk.
It was then that she turned. Beside her, arrested by the car, stood
Verplank.
After walking up from Voisin’s with Silverstairs he had left him a
moment earlier at Tempest’s.
But the great doors had opened. Before Verplank could speak, the
machine slid in. As it entered the court, the doors closed noisily.
VIII
On alighting at the perron, Leilah had as always to endure the
ceremonial of two footmen assiduously assisting her.
“Emmanuel,” she said to one of them. “Is Monsieur Barouffski at home?”
“No, madame la comtesse.”
Leilah passed on and up. For a moment, in the hall above, she
hesitated. Then, pushing a portière aside, she entered a salon, went to
the window, and looked out. Crossing the court was Verplank.
Fear and the fear of it, the throttling sensation which children know
when pursued, enveloped her. With an idea of telling the servants that
she was out, that she was ill, that she could see no one, she turned.
On a table near the entrance was a service of Sevrès. Its tender hues
were repeated on the ceiling. Beneath was the mirror of a waxed and
polished floor. On the glistening wood work her foot slipped. She
staggered, recovered herself, got to the door.
Already Verplank had entered. She could hear him. He was not asking,
he was demanding to see her. The form of the order mounted violently.
“Tell your mistress that I am here.”
Even then, with the idea that she might still deny herself, Leilah drew
back into the room. Mentally she was framing a phrase when Emmanuel
entered.
With that air domestics have when tidying something objectionable, the
footman reconstructed Verplank’s command:
“There is a monsieur who inquires whether madame la comtesse receives?”
“Tell him----”
But the injunction, as yet not wholly formed, was never completed.
Verplank, brushing the man aside, strode in.
Leilah, retreating before him, motioned at Emmanuel, and the servant,
with an affronted air of personal grievance, vacated this room that was
charged now with the vibrations of hostilities begun.
Retreating yet farther, her eyes on the foe, Leilah stared at him, and,
as she retreated, Verplank, staring, too, advanced. In his stare were
threats so voluble that she thought: “He will kill me.” At the thought,
there appeared before her Death’s liberating face, the mysteriously
consoling visage which it reveals to those alone who have reached the
depth of human woe.
Beyond, from the church, came the music of an organ. A requiem was
being held. Leilah felt as though it were her own.
Verplank, his hands clenched, the look of an executioner about him,
threw at her:
“For six months I have been looking for you. I am come to have you tell
me why I have had to look at all.”
“Dies irae, dies illa,” admirably, in a clear contralto, a woman’s
voice rang out.
Neither heard it. At the menace of the man, Leilah shrank, and in an
effort at defense cried pitiably:
“Gulian! I left a letter for you.”
Angrily he tossed his head.
“I received none, nor did I need any to tell me that there are women on
the street, others in jail, that are less vile than you.”
“Teste David cum Sibylla,” clearly and beautifully the voice resumed.
“Gulian!” Leilah cried again.
With whips in his words, he added:
“No harlot could have acted more infamously than you.”
At the lash of the outrage, Leilah, joining her hands, held them to
him. “Gulian! You are killing me!”
“It is what you deserve. There are no penalties now for such turpitudes
as yours. But, when there were, women like you were beaten with rods,
they were lapidated, stoned to death, and death was too good for them;
they should have been made to go about, as they afterward were, as you
should be, in a yellow wig, in a yellow gown, that even children might
point and cry: ‘Shame!’”
The words, which he tore from his mouth, he hurled at her. She cowered
before them. On a chair near by she had put her bag. Her wrap had
fallen from her. In the church now the hymn had ceased. The ringing of
the Elevation was beginning.
“Gulian! As if shame had not cried at me! Gulian, I have been scourged,
I have been stoned. If I live, it is to implore of you mercy.”
Her hands, still joined, were still extended, and in her face was an
expression of absolute despair. But this martyr attitude seemed to him
the most abominable of hypocrisies, and it was with anger refreshed
that he lashed her again.
“Mercy? Yes, you want mercy, you, who were merciless in your treachery
to me. A sweep would have had more decency, a scullion more heart. I
put in your hands my trust, my love, my honour, and you who want mercy
dragged them in dirt.”
“Gulian!” Within her now was that invincible need of justice which
impels the weakest to protest against the savagery of wrong. “Gulian!
When you know!”
“I do know. I know you and your lies, and the infamy of them too well.
At Coronado----”
“Gulian! You are not killing me merely, you torture my very soul.”
He sneered.
“Do I? Do I, indeed! No, you compliment yourself. It is what I want to
do, but you cheat me even there. No woman with a soul could have done
this soulless thing.”
The brutality of the arraignment shook her. She leaned against the
chair for support. She felt hopeless, helpless, defenseless, and it was
because the need for justice still impelled her, that she protested
anew.
“Gulian, if only you knew! If only you had had that letter! Had it
reached you, you would know that there was no deceit, that I left you
for your sake as well as my own. Gulian, if I had not gone you would
have seen and made me tell you, and then it may be you would have taken
me and thrown me with you from the yacht.”
There were tears in her words. With one hand she held to the chair,
the other she raised to her head. It pained her. She felt bruised and
looked it.
    “Ecce panis Angelorum
     Factus cibus viatorum----”
Beyond, sustained by the arpeggios of the organ, the voice of a singer
mounted sheerly like a thread of gold. It lowered and heightened.
Presently, on a note, as if abruptly snapped, it ceased. The organ
continued. It renewed the canticle. It projected a scale that ascended
slowly, as though upward and onward, over the limitless steps of
eternity, it were lifting the soul of the dead.
Leilah wished it were her own. Sadly she added:
“God knows it would have been better. Anything would be better than
that you should speak to me as you do.”
There is an innocence that appeals, a sincerity that disarms, a
candour that outfaces every proof, and Verplank, who had been bent on
overwhelming this woman with a contempt which he felt wholly deserved,
was impressed, in spite of himself, by the evident ingenuousness, by
the evident wretchedness, too, of her words.
He moved back.
“You say I would have made you tell me?”
“Yes. Yes. You would have.”
“But made you tell me what?”
Leilah, still holding one hand to her head, raised the other from the
chair, and with it made a gesture slight, yet desolate.
“What was it?” he asked.
Before replying, she looked away.
“What I hid from you rather than repeat.”
“But repeat what?”
Her face still turned from him, she answered:
“Something, my--something Mr. Ogston sent me.”
“Mr. Ogston!” Verplank exclaimed. The formality of the statement
astounded him. “Do you mean your father? What did he send you?”
But Leilah would not or could not speak. Her mouth contracted as though
she were choking, and she put a hand to her throat.
“Tell me,” he insisted.
She turned, and beseechingly she looked at him.
“Gulian, I cannot.”
At that Verplank moved nearer, and so dominatingly that again she
extended her hands.
“Gulian, I will get some one else to tell you. I had intended to.
Believe me, it is better so.”
“It concerns me?”
“Yes, you.”
“And you?”
“Yes, both of us.”
“Then you shall tell me, and tell me now. Do you hear?”
“Gulian!” she cried. She raised her clasped hands to him. “Gulian!”
But Verplank, his jaw ominously square, confronted her.
“I say you shall.”
“Don’t look at me then,” she pleaded. “Bend your head, bend it lower.
One second, then I will. One second--one. Ah, God! I cannot.”
Verplank, who at her bidding had stooped, straightened himself, and
caught at her.
“I say you shall.”
“Gulian, a moment. Give me a moment. Now bend your head again. One
moment, Gulian; your father, your father---- My mother loved him.”
“Your mother loved my father!”
“Gulian, I am his daughter.”
“You are what?”
“I am your sister.”
As she whispered it, she covered her face. Verplank started,
straightened again, raised his arm, and, with a gesture wide,
elemental, absurd, and human, struck at the empty air.
Savagely he turned to her.
“And you believe this?”
Leilah, her head bowed, her face covered, shook with sobs.
“You believe it?” he repeated.
“There were letters,” she stammered. “Three letters. No one could read
them and not--and not----”
“And it was for this you left me?”
A fresh access seized her. He could not see her tears, he heard them.
“And it was for this you got a divorce?”
On the chair beside her was her bag. She felt in it, and got out a
handkerchief.
“And it was for this you took that cad?”
Slowly, with infinite hesitations, the bit of cambric held to a face
that was wet and white, she turned to him.
“I thought you would forget. I thought you would marry. I thought
you would be happy. I hoped so that you would. But my leaving you,
the divorce, the marriage, these things were done with no idea of
happiness. They were to serve as barriers between us.”
Impotently he stamped a foot. He was furious still. But his anger had
deflected. He was enraged less at her than at circumstances.
“Rubbish! That’s what your barriers are.”
Leilah, wiping her eyes, turned from him. The barriers, however
fragile, were not rubbish to her.
Violently he continued:
“As for Barouffski----”
But Leilah, turning to him again, interrupted:
“Gulian, let me tell you. Last night I planned to have some one ask
you, for my sake, to go away. Gulian, I thought you would, but I
determined if you would not that I would go.”
Verplank moved back.
“Go! Go where?”
“Ah! God knows! Anywhere. Wherever I could hide myself. Wherever I
could hide my love for you.”
Her eyes had been raised to his. At the confession they lowered of
themselves. Then again she looked him in the face.
“Gulian, it is that which cried shame at me. It is that which scourged
me with rods bitterer than those of which you spoke. You say the
barriers are nothing. Gulian, you are wrong. To me they are eternal.”
“Yes,” he angrily retorted. “Yes, if your story were true. But it
isn’t. It’s arrant nonsense.”
In miserable protest, she half raised a hand.
“Gulian, when I read those letters my youth died in me. Never since
they reached me have I had the heart to smile. If you had seen them you
would have felt the truth in every line.”
“I would have felt nothing of the kind; the fact that you still care
for me ought to show you that they are false.”
“Gulian, I tried to think that, too; but even in trying I felt that I
was pleading for myself.”
“Then, for the love of God, stop pleading and act! Look at yourself,
look at me! We could not be more unlike if we came from different
planets.”
She was making an effort to answer. He stopped her.
“Listen to this. If you can’t act, I shall. My mother is in London.
To-morrow she is to be here. Probably she can tell me the truth. If
not, I will go to the States. There I will see your father. When I
return it will be with proofs. I will bring them if I have to drag that
old scoundrel with me.”
He paused. Though angry still, her story had pacified him. He felt it
to be false, nonetheless she had believed it and the fact that she
had, absolved her of much that she had done. However she had erred, she
had at least tried to do right. He closed and opened a hand, looked at
it and from it looked at her.
“But first I will see my mother. In any case I will be here to-morrow.
Yes, that’s what I’ll do. Why shouldn’t I come. Why not?”
Leilah did not answer. She did not believe he would come, except to
cause fresh agony to them both there was no reason why he should do
so. The horror which she had told him and to which incredulously he
had listened was gospel to her, an evil gospel, yes, but nonetheless a
true one. Besides if he did come as, in any case, he said he would, he
might meet Barouffski, and affrightedly she foresaw blows, afterwards a
duel--one which she was unaware was then impending.
“Why not?” Verplank repeated, fumbling her as he spoke with suspicious
eyes and appearing to divine and to resent her forecast.
She caught at a straw. Usually, between four and seven, Barouffski was
tabled at baccarat, gambling with her money. That straw she produced.
“Come at five.”
Verplank, appeased, nodded. “Very good, at five then.”
But at once she realised that other safeguards were needful. She
hesitated, looked about her, looked at Verplank, gave him his hat,
motioned to him. Then, preceding him, she passed into an adjoining
salon, entered the dining room and moved from it to the garden below.
Passably mystified, he followed.
The air, freighted with fragrance, stirred by music from the church,
the dogs, at sight of him, charged suddenly with menaces. Straining at
their chains, viciously they clamoured.
Indifferently Verplank glanced from them to the gate beyond, to which
Leilah was leading him.
When both reached it, she opened it and said: “Come this way to-morrow,
will you?”
For a second he considered her. Her face was as a book in which he
could read the reason. In view of many things, particularly of the
duel, it seemed to him all very puerile.
But, replacing his hat, grimly he nodded. “Before then I have rather an
idea that there may be a deficit among us.”
This expression, in itself perhaps over precise, was too much for her
and the fact that it was showed itself in her eyes.
Without heeding their inquiry he nodded again. “I will come this way
but only that together we may leave by the other.”
Again he nodded. In a moment he had gone.
Leilah, closing the gate behind him watched him go. It was, she felt,
her last earthly sight of him. There would be no going away together.
He would never come back. Never. His mother, if she knew the truth,
could only substantiate it. If she did not, another would. Helplessly
she held at the gate. A vagrant passed, she did not see. A hawker
called, she did not hear. She was not only helpless, she was hopeless.
She wished that death really were, that it could beneficently come,
take her, shroud her in blankness, in endless oblivion of what was and
of what might have been. Long since the dogs, mollified by Verplank’s
exit, had ceased to bark. Shrilly now from the church came boys’ fresh
voices. The music of them stirred her a little and she turned.
Before her, framed in a window of the dining room, Barouffski stood. At
sight of him she started. Amiably he smiled. When she looked again he
had vanished.
But, in a moment, in the doorway beneath, smiling still, he reappeared.
“What a beautiful day, is it not?” Oilily he rubbed his hands. “You
have been having visitors, cara mia?”
As he spoke he moved toward her. Urbanely he continued! “And what did
they have to say?”
He was quite near her now and, with his head held a trifle to one side
he was regarding her with affectionate indulgence, much as one would
regard a child.
“They told you nothing new, cara mia?”
Without looking at him, Leilah shook her head. “Nothing. Nothing at
least that I did not know.”
Smiling still, indulgent as before, Barouffski plucked at his pointed
beard. “And what is that, cara mia?”
Remotely, in a voice without colour, as though speaking not to him at
all but only to herself, she answered:
“That I am the most miserable woman in the world.”
Barouffski’s smile broadened. “Bah! They exaggerated, cara mia. It is
the way of the world. Mon Dieu, à qui se fier? You are not at all what
they said. You are--how shall I put it--perhaps a bit indiscreet. That
is it, a bit indiscreet.” He pointed to the bench. “Will you not seat
yourself?”
He was still smiling, but the smile wholly muscular, was one in which
the eyes have no part. The “visitors” whom he affected to ridicule,
alarmed him. They were, he knew, quite capable of taking Leilah away.
Her presence or absence was quite one to him. Only if she departed, so
would her purse.
“Will you not?” he repeated.
“I am going in.”
“Certainly, cara mia. It is as it pleases you. But----”
At this Leilah, who had passed him, turned.
“Well, what?”
“You see, cara mia, supposing I had visitors. Supposing rather I had a
visitor. We are only supposing, are we not? Bon! Supposing this visitor
happened to be what we call an ancienne, an old flame, an inamorata of
mine. Supposing that were so. Do you know what you could do?”
“No,” Leilah from over her shoulder answered. “Nor do I care.”
“Forgive me, cara mia. You mean that you do not care to be informed.
Yet you should know, for you could if you wished have me fined. Yes,
that is what you could do. You could have me fined.
“But I,” he resumed. “Do you know in similar circumstances what I could
do? Do you know rather what the law says I may do? Do you, cara mia?
Do you? For really you ought to.”
But Leilah now was approaching the entrance.
“What!” Barouffski exclaimed. “You are not interested? You are really
going?”
As he spoke, he bowed. “Bon, à ce soir, cara mia. And a last word. If I
may advise, do not be led into indiscretions.”
“Do not,” he repeated, while shrilly from the adjacent church came the
voices of boys chanting the final phrase of the Pater Noster:
“Sed libera nos a malo.”
“That is it,” he called at Leilah’s retreating back. “Pray rather to be
delivered of them. Otherwise----”
But Leilah now had entered the house.
“Otherwise,” he continued to himself and moving to the kennels, patted
the dogs, “otherwise a sojourn in Poland may improve you.”
IX
“The strawberries were delicious,” Violet, the following day, remarked
to Leilah.
The two women were seated in the garden of the house in the rue de la
Pompe. It was just after luncheon and between them was a table on which
coffee had been served. From without came the whirr of passing motors,
the cries of those hawkers who are never still. But the garden itself
was quiet, scented too and the day superb.
Violet, patting a yawn, resumed: “One never really gets strawberries
except in Paris. They are so big! And so expensive, aren’t they? I know
that in a restaurant a man gave one to the waiter for a tip.”
She looked about her. “But, mercy! What can have become of Aurelia? She
was to have stopped for me.”
“Don’t you think it unwise to let her go on the stage?” Leilah, with an
air of talking for talk’s sake, inquired.
“Let her! But she’s got her head. I can’t prevent her. She’ll never
come to any harm though. She isn’t the kind to want to do anything she
thought was wrong. No indeed. She would never think anything wrong that
she wanted to do. But tell me. I could not very well ask before the
servants. What are you going to do?”
For a moment Leilah did not answer. Then, a bit resignedly, she folded
her hands.
“I do not see that I have the ability to do anything.”
