all had gone back to Albany before our scout of three returned from
Westchester.
Here on the river, within our lines, while the army remained, she would
be safe enough from forest peril. Yet I burned and raged to think of
the baser peril ever threatening her among men of her own speech and
colour. I suppose, considering her condition, they had a right to think
her that which she was not and never had been. For honesty and maiden
virtue never haunted camps. Only two kinds of women tramped with
regiments--the wives of soldiers, and their mistresses.
Yet, somehow her safety must be now arranged, her worth and virtue
clearly understood, her needs and dire necessities made known, so that
when our army moved she might find a shelter, kind and respectable,
within the Middle Fort, or at Schenectady, or anywhere inside our lines.
My pay was small; yet, having no soul dependent on my bounty and
needing little myself, I had saved these pitiable dollars that our
Congress paid us. Besides, I had a snug account with my solicitor in
Albany. She might live on that. I did not need it; seldom drew a penny;
my pay more than sufficing. And, after the war had ended--ended----
Just here my heart beat out o' step, and thought was halted for a
moment. But with the warm thought and warmer blood tingling me once
again, I knew and never doubted that we had not done with one another
yet, nor were like to, war or no war. For in all the world, and through
all the years of youth, I had never before encountered any woman who
had shared with me my waking thoughts and the last and conscious moment
ere I slept. But from the time I lost this woman out of my life,
something seemed also missing from the world. And when again I found
her, life and the world seemed balanced and well rounded once again.
And in my breast a strange calm rested me.
As I walked along the rutty lake road, all hatched and gashed by the
artillery, I made up my mind to one matter. "She must have clothes!"
thought I, "and that's flat!" Perhaps not such as befitted her, but
something immediate, and not in tatters--something stout that
threatened not to part and leave her naked. For the brier-torn rags she
wore scarce seemed to hold together; and her small, shy feet peeped
through her gaping shoon in snowy hide-and-seek.
Now, coming hither from the fort, I had already noticed on the
Stoney-Kill where our Oneidas lay encamped. So when I sighted the first
painted tree and saw the stone pipe hanging, I made for it, and found
there the Indians smoking pipes and not in war paint; and their women
and children were busy with their gossip, near at hand.
As I had guessed, there by the fire lay a soft and heavy pack of
doeskins, open, and a pretty Oneida matron sewing Dutch wampum on a
painted sporran for her warrior lord.
The lean and silent warriors came up as I approached, sullenly at
first, not knowing what treatment to expect--more shame to the skin we
take our pride in!
One after another took the hand I offered in self-respecting silence.
"Brothers," I said, "I come to buy. Sooner or later your young men will
put on red paint and oil their bodies. Even now I see your rifles and
your hatchets have been polished. Sooner or later the army will move
four hundred miles through a wilderness so dark that neither sun nor
moon nor stars can penetrate. The old men, the women, the children, and
the littlest ones still strapped to the cradle-board, must then remain
behind. Is it the truth I speak, my brothers?"
"It is the truth," they answered very quietly, "Then," said I, "they
will require food and money to buy with. Is it not true, Oneidas?"
"It is true, brother."
I smiled and turned toward the women who were listening, and who now
looked up at me with merry faces.
"I have," said I, "four hundred dollars. It is for the Oneida maid or
matron who will sell to me her pretty bridal dress of doeskin--the
dress which she has made and laid aside and never worn. I buy her
marriage dress. And she will make another for herself against the hour
of need."
Two or three girls leaped laughing to their feet; but, "Wait!" said I.
"This is for my little sister; and I must judge you where you stand,
Oneida forest flowers, so I may know which one among you is most like
my little sister in height and girth and narrow feet."
"Is our elder brother's little sister fat and comely?" inquired one
giggling and over-plump Oneida maid.
"Not plump," I said; and they all giggled.
Another short one stood on tip-toe, asking bashfully if she were not
the proper height to suit me.
But there was a third, graceful and slender, who had risen with the
rest, and who seemed to me nearer a match to Lois. Also, her naked,
dusky feet were small and shapely.
At a smiling nod from me she hastened into the family lodge and
presently reappeared with the cherished clothing. Fresh and soft and
new, she cast the garments on the moss and spread them daintily and
proudly to my view for me to mark her wondrous handiwork. And it was
truly pretty--from the soft, wampum-broidered shirt with its hanging
thrums, to the clinging skirt and delicate thigh-moccasins, wonderfully
fringed with purple and inset in most curious designs with painted
quills and beads and blue diamond-fronds from feathers of a little
jay-bird's wing.
Bit by bit I counted out the currency; and it took some little time.
But when it was done she took it eagerly enough, laughing her thanks
and dancing away toward her lodge. And if her dusky sisters envied her
they smiled on me no less merrily as I took my leave of them. And very
courteously a stately chief escorted me to the campfire's edge. The
Oneidas were ever gentlemen; and their women gently bred.
Once more at my own hut door, I entered, with a nod to Mayaro, who sat
smoking there in freshened war paint. One quick and penetrating glance
he darted at the Oneida garment on my arm, but except for that betrayed
no curiosity.
"Well, Mayaro," said I, in excellent spirits, "you still wear war paint
hopefully, I see. But this army will never start within the week."
The Siwanois smiled to himself and smoked. Then he passed the pipe to
me. I drew it twice, rendered it.
"Come," said I, "have you then news that we take the war-trail soon?"
"The war-trail is always open for those who seek it. When my younger
brother makes ready for a trail, does he summon it to come to him by
magic, or does he seek it on his two legs?"
"Are you hoping to go out with the scout to-night?" I asked. "That
would not do."
"I go to-night with my brother Loskiel--to take the air," he said slyly.
"That may not be," I protested, disconcerted. "I have business abroad
to-night."
"And I," he said very seriously; but he glanced again at the pretty
garments on my arm and gave me a merry look.
"Yes," said I, smilingly, "they are for her. The little lady hath no
shoon, no skirt that holds together, save by the grace of cockspur
thorns that bind the tatters. Those I have bought of an Oneida girl.
And if they do not please her, yet these at least will hold together.
And I shall presently write a letter to Albany and send it by the next
batteau to my solicitor, who will purchase for her garments far more
suitable, and send them to the fort where soon, I trust, she will be
lodged in fashion more befitting."
The Sagamore's face had become smooth and expressionless. I laid aside
the garments, fished out quill and inkhorn, and, lying flat on the
ground, wrote my letter to Albany, describing carefully the maid who
was to be fitted, her height, the smallness of her waist and foot as
well as I remembered. I wrote, too, that she was thin, but not too
thin. Also I bespoke a box of French hair-powder for her, and buckled
shoes of Paddington, and stockings, and a kerchief.
"You know better than do I," I wrote, "having a sister to care for, how
women dress. They should have shifts, and hair-pegs, and a scarf, and
fan, and stays, and scent, and hankers, and a small laced hat, not
gilded; cloak, foot-mantle, sun-mask, and a chip hat to tie beneath the
chin, and one such as they call after the pretty Mistress Gunning. If
women wear banyans, I know not, but whatever they do wear in their own
privacy at morning chocolate, in the French fashion, and whatever they
do sleep in, buy and box and send to me. And all the money banked with
you, put it in her name as well as mine, so that her draughts on it may
all be honoured. And this is her name----"
I stopped, dismayed, I did not know her name! And I was about to sign
for her full power to share my every penny! Yet, my amazing madness did
not strike me as amazing or grotesque, that, within the hour, a maid in
a condition such as hers was to divide my tidy fortune with me. Nay,
more--for when I signed this letter she would be free to take what she
desired and even leave me destitute.
I laughed at the thought--so midsummer mad was I upon that sunny July
afternoon; and within me, like a hidden thicket full of birds, my heart
was singing wondrous tunes I never knew one note of.
"O Sagamore," I said, lifting my head, "tell me her surname now,
because I need it for this business. And I forgot to ask her at the
Spring Waiontha."
For a full minute the Indian's countenance turned full on me remained
moon-blank. Then, like lightning, flashed his smile.
"Loskiel, my friend, and now my own blood-brother, what magic singing
birds have so enchanted your two ears. She is but a child, lonely and
ragged--a tattered leaf still green, torn from the stem by storm and
stress, blown through the woodlands and whirled here and yonder by
every breath of wind. Is it fit that my brother Loskiel should notice
such a woman?"
"She is in need, my brother."
"Give, and pass on, Loskiel."
"That is not giving, O my brother."
"Is it to give alone, Loskiel? Or is it to give--that she may render
all?"
"Yes, honestly to give. Not to take."
"And yet you know her not, Loskiel."
"But I shall know her yet! She has so promised. If she is friendless,
she shall be our friend. For you and I are one, O Sagamore! If she is
cold, naked, or hungry, we will build for her a fire, and cover her,
and give her meat. Our lodge shall be her lodge; our friends hers, her
enemies ours. I know not how this all has come to me, Mayaro, my
friend--even as I know not how your friendship came to me, or how now
our honour is lodged forever in each other's keeping. But it is true.
Our blood has made us of one race and parentage."
"It is the truth," he said.
"Then tell me her name, that I may write it to my friend in Albany."
"I do not know it," he said quietly.
"She never told you?"
"Never," he said. "Listen, Loskiel. What I now tell to you with heart
all open and my tongue unloosened, is all I know of her. It was in
winter that she came to Philipsburgh, all wrapped in her red cloak. The
White Plains Indians were there, and she was ever at their camp asking
the same and endless question."
"What question, Mayaro?"
"That I shall also tell you, for I overheard it. But none among the
White Plains company could answer her; no, nor no Congress soldier that
she asked.
"The soldiers were not unkind; they offered food and fire--as soldiers
do, Loskiel," he added, with a flash of Contempt for men who sought
what no Siwanois, no Iroquois, ever did seek of any maiden or any
chaste and decent woman, white or red.
"I know," I said. "Continue."
"I offered shelter," he said simply. "I am a Siwanois. No women need to
dread Mohicans. She learned this truth from me for the first time, I
think. Afterward, pitying her, I watched her how she went from camp to
camp. Some gave her mending to do, some washing, enabling her to live.
I drew clothing and arms and rations as a Hudson guide enrolled, and
together she and I made out to live. Then, in the spring, Major
Lockwood summoned me to carry intelligence between the lines. And she
came with me, asking at every camp the same strange question; and ever
the soldiers laughed and plagued and courted her, offering food and
fire and shelter--but not the answer to her question. And one day--the
day you came to Poundridge-town--and she had sought for me through that
wild storm--I met her by the house as I came from North Castle with
news of horsemen riding in the rain."
He leaned forward, looking at me steadily.
"Loskiel," he said, "when first I heard your name from her, and that it
was you who wanted Mayaro, suddenly it seemed to me that magic was
being made. And--I myself gave her her answer--the answer to the
question she had asked at every camp."
"Good God!" said I, "did you, then know the answer all the while? And
never told her?" But at the same moment I understood how perfectly
characteristic of an Indian had been his conduct.
"I knew," he said tranquilly, "but I did not know why this maiden
wished to know. Therefore was I silent."
"Why did you not ask her?" But before he spake I knew why too.
"Does a Sagamore ask idle questions of a woman?" he said coldly. "Do
the Siwanois babble?"
"No. And yet--and yet----"
"Birds sing, maidens chatter. A Mohican considers ere his tongue is
loosed."
"Aye--it is your nature, Sagamore.... But tell me--what was it in the
mention of my name that made you think of magic?"
"Loskiel, you came two hundred miles to ask of me the question that
this maid had asked in every camp."
"What question?"
"Where lay the trail to Catharines-town," he said.
"Did she ask that?" I demanded in astonishment.
"It was ever the burden of her piping--this rosy-throated pigeon of the
woods."
"That is most strange," said I.
"It is doubtless sorcery that she should ask of me an interview with
you who came two hundred miles to ask of me the very question."
"But, Mayaro, she did not then know why I had come to seek you."
"I knew as quickly as I heard your name."
"How could you know before you saw me and I had once made plain my
business?"
"Birds come and go; but eagles see their natal nest once more before
they die."
"I do not understand you, Mayaro."
He made no answer.
"Merely to hear my name from this child's lips, you say you guessed my
business with you?"
"Surely, Loskiel--surely. It was all done by magic. And, at once, I
knew that I should also speak to her, there in the storm, and answer
her her question."
"And did you do so?"
"Yes, Loskiel. I said to her: 'Little sad rosy-throated pigeon of the
woods, the vale Yndaia lies by a hidden river in the West. Some call it
Catharines-town.'"
I shook my head, perplexed, and understanding nothing.
"Yndaia? Did you say Yndaia, Mayaro?"
Then, as he looked me steadily in the eye, my gaze became uneasy,
shifted, fell by an accident upon the blood-red bear reared on his hind
legs, pictured upon his breast. And through and through me passed a
shock, like the dull thrill of some forgotten thing clutched suddenly
by memory--yet clutched in vain.
Vain was the struggle, too, for the faint gleam passed from my mind as
it had come; and if the name Yndaia had disturbed me, or seeing the
scarlet ensign on his breast, or perhaps both coupled, had seemed to
stir some distant memory, I did not know. Only it seemed as though, in
mental darkness, I had felt the presence of some living and familiar
thing--been conscious of its nearness for an instant ere it had
vanished utterly.
The Sagamore's face had become a smooth, blank mask again.
"What has this maid, Lois, to do with Catharines-town?" I asked.
"Devils live there in darkness."
"She did not say."
"You do not know?"
"No, Loskiel."
"But," said I, troubled, "why did she journey hither?"
"Because she now believes that only I in all the world could guide her
to the vale Yndaia; and that one day I will pity her and take her
there."
"Doubtless," I said anxiously, "she has heard at the forts or
hereabouts that we are to march on Catharines-town."
"She knows it now, Loskiel"
"And means to follow?" I exclaimed in horror.
"My brother speaks the truth."
"God! What urges the child thither?"
"I do not know, Loskiel. It seems as though a madness were upon her
that she must go to Catharines-town. I tell you there is sorcery in all
this. I say it--I, a Sagamore of the Enchanted Wolf. Who should know
magic when it stirs but I, of the Siwanois--the Magic Clan? Say what
you will, my comrade and blood-brother, there is sorcery abroad; and
well I know who wrought it, spinning with spiders' webs there by the
lost Lake of Kendaia----" He shuddered slightly. "There by the black
waters of the lake--that hag--and all her spawn!"
"Catharine Montour!"
"The Toad-woman herself--and all her spawn."
"The Senecas?"
"And the others," he said in a low voice.
A sudden and terrible misgiving assailed me. I swallowed, and then said
slowly:
"Two scalps were taken late last night by Murphy and Elerson. And the
scalps were not of the Mohawk. Not Oneida, nor Onondaga, nor Cayuga.
Mayaro!" I gasped. "So help me God, those scalps are never Seneca!"
"Erie!" he exclaimed with a mixture of rage and horror. And I saw his
sinewy hand quivering on his knife-hilt. "Listen, Loskiel! I knew it!
No one has told me. I have sat here all the day alone, making my steel
bright and my paint fresher, and singing to myself my people's songs.
And ever as I sat at the lodge door, something in the summer wind
mocked at me and whispered to me of demons. And when I rose and stood
at gaze, troubled, and minding every river-breeze, faintly I seemed to
scent the taint of evil. If those two scalps be Erie, then where the
Cat-People creep their Sorcerer will be found."
"Amochol," I repeated under my breath. And shivered.
For, deep in the secret shadows of that dreadful place where this vile
hag, Catharine Montour, ruled it in Catharines-town, dwelt also all
that now remained of the Cat-Nation--Eries--People of the Cat--a dozen,
it was rumoured, scarcely more--and demons all, serving that horrid
warlock, Amochol, the Sorcerer of the Senecas.
What dreadful rites this red priest and his Eries practiced there, none
knew, unless it were true that the False Faces knew. But rumour
whispered with a thousand tongues of horrors viewless, nameless,
inconceivable; and that far to the westward Biskoonah yawned, so close
indeed to the world's surface that the waters boiling deep in hell
burst into burning fountains in the magic garden where the red priest
made his sorcery, alone.
These things I had heard, but vaguely, here and there--a word perhaps
at Johnson Hall, a whisper at Fort Johnson, rumours discussed at Guy
Park and Schenectady when I was young. But ever the same horror of it
filled me, though I believed it not, knowing full well there were no
witches, sorcerers, or warlocks in the world; yet, in my soul disturbed
concerning what might pass deep in the shadows of that viewless Empire.
"Mayaro," I said seriously, "do you go instantly to the fort and view
those scalps."
"Were the braids fastened at the roots with tree-cat claws?"
"Aye!"
"No need to view them, then, Loskiel."
"Are they truly Erie?"
"Cats!" He spat the word from his lips and his eyes blazed.
"And--Amochol!" I asked unsteadily.
"The Cat People creep with the Seneca high priest, mewing under the
moon."
"Then--he is surely here?"
"Aye, Loskiel."
"God!" said I, now all a-quiver; "only to slay him! Only to end this
demon-thing, this poison spawn of the Woman-Toad! Only to glimpse his
scarlet rags fairly along my rifle sight!"
"No bullets touch him."
"That is nonsense, Mayaro----"
"No, Loskiel."
"I tell you he is human! There are no sorcerers on earth. There never
were--except the Witch of Endor----"
"I never heard of her. But the Witch of Catharines-town is living. And
her warlock offspring, Amochol!" He squared his broad shoulders,
shaking them. "What do I care?" he said. "I am a Sagamore of the
Enchanted Clan!" He struck the painted symbol on his chest. "What do I
care for this red priest's sorcery--I, who wear the great Witch Bear
rearing in scarlet here across my breast!
"Let the Cat People make their magic! Let Amochol sacrifice to Leshi in
Biskoonah! Let their accursed Atensi watch the Mohicans from behind the
moon. Mayaro is a Sagamore and his clan are Sachems; and the clan was
old--old--old, O little brother, before their Hiawatha came to them and
made their League for them, and returned again to The Master of Life in
his silver cloud-canoe!
"And I say to you, O my blood-brother, that between this sorcerer and
me is now a war such as no Mohican ever waged and no man living, white
or red, has ever seen. His magic will I fight with magic; his knife and
hatchet shall be turned on mine! And I shall deceive and trick and mock
him--him and his Erie Cats, till one by one their scalps shall swing
above a clean Mohican fire. O Loskiel, my brother, and my other self, a
warrior and a Sagamore has spoken. Go, now, to your evening tryst in
peace and leave me. For in my ears the Seven Chiefs are whispering--The
Thunderers. And Tamanund must hear my speech and read my heart. And the
long roll of our Mohican dead must be recited--here and alone by
me--the only one who has that right since Uncas died and the Mohican
priesthood ended, save for the Sagamores of the Magic Clan.
"Go, now, my brother. Go in peace."
CHAPTER VII
LOIS
When I came to the log house by the Spring Waiontha, lantern in hand
and my packet tucked beneath my arm, it was twilight, and the starless
skies threatened rain. Road and field and forest were foggy and silent;
and I thought of the first time I had ever set eyes on Lois, in the
late afternoon stillness which heralded a coming storm.
I had with me, as I say, a camp lantern which enabled me to make my way
through the thicket to the Spring Waiontha. Not finding her there, I
retraced my steps and crossed the charred and dreary clearing to the
house of logs.
No light burned within; doubtless this widow woman was far too poor to
afford a light of any sort. But my lantern still glimmered, and I went
up to the splintered door and rapped.
Lois opened it, her knitting gathered in her hand, and stood aside for
me to enter.
At first, so dusky was the room that I perceived no other occupant
beside ourselves. Then Lois said: "Mrs. Rannock, Mr. Loskiel, of whom I
spoke at supper, is to be made known to you."
Then first I saw a slight and ghostly figure rise, take shape in the
shadows, and move slowly into my lantern's feeble beams----a frail and
pallid woman, who made her reverence as though dazed, and uttered not a
word.
Lois whispered in my ear:
"She scarcely seems to know she is alive, since Cherry Valley. A Tory
slew her little sister with a hatchet; then her husband fell; and then,
before her eyes, a blue-eyed Indian pinned her baby to its cradle with
a bayonet."
I crossed the room to where she stood, offering my hand; and she laid
her thin and work-worn fingers listlessly in mine.
"Madam," I said gently, "there are today two thousand widows such as
you betwixt Oriska and Schenectady. And, to our cause, each one of you
is worth a regiment of men, your sorrows sacred to us all,
strengthening our vows, steeling us to a fierce endeavour. No innocent
death in this long war has been in vain; no mother's agony. Yet, only
God can comfort such as you."
She shook her head slowly.
"No God can comfort me," she said, in a voice so lifeless that it
sounded flat as the words that sleepers utter, dreaming of trouble.
"Shall we be seated outside on the door-sill?" whispered Lois. "The
only seat within is on the settle, where she sits."
"Is this the only room?"
"Yes--save for the mouse-loft, where I sleep on last year's corn-husks.
Shall we sit outside? We can speak very low. She will not heed us."
Pity for all this stark and naked wretchedness left me silent; then, as
the lantern's rays fell on this young girl's rags, I remembered my
packet.
"Yes, we will sit outside. But first, I bring you a little gift----"
She looked up quickly and drew back a step, "Oh, but such a little
gift, Lois--a nothing--a mere jest of mine which we shall enjoy between
us. Take it as I offer it, lightly, and without constraint."
Reluctantly she permitted me to lay the packet in her arms, displeasure
still darkening her brow. Then I set my lantern on the puncheon floor
and stepped outside, closing the hatchet-battered door behind me.
How long I paced the foggy strip of clearing I do not know. The mist
had thickened to rain when I heard the door creak; and, turning in my
tracks, caught the lantern's sparkle on the threshold, and the dull
gleam of her Oneida finery.
I picked up the lantern and held it high above us.
Smiling and bashful she stood there in her clinging skirt and
wampum-broidered vest, her slender, rounded limbs moulded into soft
knee-moccasins of fawn-skin, and the Virgin's Girdle knotted across her
thighs in silver-tasselled seawan.
And, "Lord!" said I, surprised by the lovely revelation. "What a
miracle are you in your forest masquerade!"
"Am I truly fine to please you, Euan?"
I said, disturbed, but striving to speak lightly:
"Little Oneida goddess in your bridal dress, the Seven Dancers are
laughing at me from your eyes; and the Day-Sun and the Night-Sun hang
from your sacred girdle, making it flash like silvery showers of
seawan. Salute, O Watcher at the Gates of Dawn! Onwa oyah! Na-i! A-i!
Lois!" And I drew my light war-hatchet from its sheath and raised it
sparkling, in salute.
She laughed a little, blushed a little, and bent her dainty head to
view her finery once more, examining it gravely to the last red quill
sewed to the beaded toe-point.
Then, still serious, she lifted her grey eyes to me:
"I seem to find no words to thank you, Euan. But my heart
is--very--full----" She hesitated, then stretched forth her hand to me,
smiling; and as I touched it ceremoniously with finger-tip and lip:
"Ai-me!" she exclaimed, withdrawing under shelter. "It is raining,
Euan! Your rifle-shirt is wet already, and you are like to take a
chill! Come under shelter instantly!"
"Fancy a man of Morgan's with a chill!" I said, but nevertheless obeyed
her, set the lantern on the puncheon floor, brushed the fine drops from
thrums and hatchet-sheath, rubbed the bright-edged little axe with
buck-skinned elbow, and wiped my heavy knife from hilt to blade.
As I looked up, busy with my side-arms, I caught her eye. We smiled at
each other; then, as though a common instinct stirred us to caution, we
turned and looked silently toward the settle in the corner, where the
widow sat brooding alone.
"May we speak freely here, Lois?" I whispered.
She cast a cautious glance at the shadowy figure, then, lowering her
voice and leaning nearer:
"I scarcely know whether she truly heeds and hears. She may
not--yet--she may. And I do not care to share my confidences with
anyone--save you. I promised to tell you something about myself.... I
mean to, some day."
"Then you will not tell me now?"
"How can I, Euan?"
We stood silent, thinking. Presently my eyes fell on the rough ladder
leading to the loft above. She followed my gaze, hesitated, shot a keen
and almost hostile glance at me, softened and coloured, then stole
across the room to the ladder's foot.
I lifted the lantern, followed her, and mounted, lighting the way for
her along low-hanging eaves among the rustling husks. She dropped the
trap-door silently, above the ladder, took the lantern from my hand,
set it on the floor, and seated herself beside it on the husks, her
cheeks still brightly flushed.
"Is this then your intimate abode?" I asked, half-smiling.
"Could I desire a snugger one?" she answered gaily. "Here is both
warmth and shelter; and a clean bed of husks; and if I am lonely, there
be friendly little mice to bear me company o' nights. And here my mice
and I lie close and listen to the owls."
"And you were reared in comfort!" I said with sudden bitterness.
She looked up quickly, then, shrugging her shoulders:
"There is still some comfort for those who can remember their brief day
of ease--none for those who never knew it. I have had days of comfort."
"What age are you, Lois?"
"Twenty, I think."
"Scarce that!" I insisted.
"Do I not seem so?" she asked, smiling.
"Eighteen at most--save for the--sadness--in your eyes that now and
then surprises me--if it be sadness that I read there."
"Perhaps it is the wisdom I have learned--a knowledge that means
sadness, Euan. Do my eyes betray it, then, so plainly?"
"Sometimes," I said, A faint sound from below arrested our attention.
Lois whispered:
"It is Mrs. Rannock weeping. She often weeps like that at night. And so
would I, Euan, had I beheld the horrors which this poor thing was born
to look upon--God comfort her! Have you never heard how the
destructives slew her husband, her baby, and her little sister eight
years old? The baby lay in its cradle smiling up at its murderers. Even
the cruel Senecas turned aside, forbearing to harm it. But one of
Walter Butler's painted Tories spies it and bawls out: 'This also will
grow to be a rebel!' And with that he speared the little smiling
creature on his bayonet, tossed it, and caught it--Oh, Euan--Euan!"
Shuddering, she flung her arm across her face as though to shut out the
vision.
"That villainy," said I, "was done by Newberry or Chrysler, if I
remember. And Newberry we caught and hung before we went to
Westchester. I saw him hang with that wretched Lieutenant Hare. God!
how we cheered by regiments marching back to camp!"
Through the intense stillness I could still hear the woman sobbing in
the dark below.
"Lois--little Lois," I whispered, touching her trembling arm with a
hand quite as unsteady.
She dropped her arm from her face, looking up at me with eyes widened
still in horror.
I said: "Do you then wonder that the thought of you, roaming these
woods alone, is become a living dread to me, so that I think of nothing
else?"
She smiled wanly, and sat thinking for a while, her pale face pressed
between her hands. Presently she looked up.
"Are we so truly friends then, Euan? At the Spring Waiontha it almost
seemed as though it could come true."
"You know it has come true."
"Do I?"
"Do you not know it, little Lois?"
"I seem to know it, somehow.... Tell me, Euan, does a true and
deathless friendship with a man--with you--mean that I am to strip my
heart of every secret, hiding nothing from you?"
"Dare you do it, Lois?" I said laughingly, yet thrilled with the
candour of her words.
"I could not let you think me better than I am. That would be stealing
friendship from you. But if you give it when you really know me--that
will be dear and wonderful----" She drew a swift breath and smiled.
Surprised, then touched, I met the winning honesty of her gaze in
silence.
"Unless you truly know me--unless you know to whom you give your
friendship--you can not give it rightly. Can you, Euan? You must learn
all that I am and have been, Is not this necessary?"
"I--I ask you nothing," I stammered. "All that I know of you is
wonderful enough----" Suddenly the danger of the moment opened out
before me, checking my very thoughts.
She laid both hands against her temple, pressing them there till her
cheeks cooled. So she pondered for a while, her gaze remote. Then,
looking fearlessly at me:
"Euan, I am of that sad company of children born without name. I have
lately dared to guess who was my father. Presently I will tell you who
he was." Her grey and troubled eyes gazed into space now, dreamily. "He
died long since. But my mother is living. And I believe she lives near
Catharines-town to-day!"
"What! Why do you think so?" I exclaimed, astounded.
"Is not the Vale Yndaia there, near Catharines-town?"
"Yes. But why----"
"Then listen, Euan. Every year upon a certain day--the twelfth of
May--no matter where I chance to be, always outside my door I find two
little beaded moccasins. I have had them thirteen times in thirteen
years. And every year--save the last two--the moccasins have been made
a little larger, as though to fit my growing years. Now, for the last
two years, they have remained the same in size, fitting me perfectly.
And--I never yet have worn them more than to fit them on and take them
off."
"Why?" I asked vaguely.
"I save them for my journey."
"What journey?"
"The long trail through the Long House--straight through it, Euan, to
the Western Door. That is the trail I dream of."
"Who leaves these strange moccasins at your threshold every year?"
"I do not know."
"From where do you suppose they come?" I asked, amazed.
"From Catharines-town."
"Do you believe your mother sends them?"
"Oh, Euan, I know it now! Until two years ago I did not understand. But
now I know it!"
"Why are you so certain Lois? Is any written message sent with them?"
"Always within one of each pair of moccasins is sewed a strip of silver
birch. Always the message written is the same; and this is what is
always written:
"Swift moccasins for little feet as swift against the day that the long
trail is safe. Then, in the Vale Yndaia, little Lois, seek her who bore
you, saved you, lost you, but who love you always.
"Pray every day for him who died in the Regiment de la Reine.
"Pray too for her who waits for you, in far Yndaia."
"What a strange message!" I exclaimed.
"I must heed it," she said under her breath. "The trail is open, and my
hour is come."
"But, Lois, that trail means death!"
"Your army makes it safe at last. And now the time is come when I must
follow it."
"Is that why you have followed us?"
"Yes, that is why. Until that night in the storm at Poundridge-town I
had never learned where the Vale Yndaia lay. Month after month I
haunted camps, asking for information concerning Yndaia and the
Regiment de la Reine. But of Yndaia I learned nothing, until the
Sagamore informed me that Yndaia lay near Catharines-town. And,
learning you were of the army, and that the army was bound thither, I
followed you."
"Why did you not tell me this at Poundridge? You should have camped
with us," I said.
"Because of my fear of men--except red men. And I had already quite
enough of your Lieutenant Boyd."
I looked at her seriously; and she comprehended the unasked questions
that were troubling me.
"Shall I tell you more? Shall I tell you how I have learned my dread of
men--how it has been with me since my foster parents found me lying at
their door strapped to a painted cradle-board?"
"You!"
"Aye; that was my shameful beginning, so they told me afterward--long
afterward. For I supposed they were my parents--till two years ago. Now
shall I tell you all, Euan? And risk losing a friendship you might have
given in your ignorance of me?"
Quick, hot, unconsidered words flew to my lips--so sweet and fearless
were her eyes. But I only muttered:
"Tell me all."
"From the beginning, then--to scour my heart out for you! So, first and
earliest my consciousness awoke to the sound of drums. I am sure of
this because when I hear them it seems as though they were the first
sounds that I ever heard.... And once, lately, they were like to be the
last.... And next I can remember playing with a painted mask of wood,
and how the paint tasted, and its odour.... Then, nothing more can I
remember until I was a little child with--him I thought to be my
father. I may not name him. You will understand presently why I do not."
She looked down, pulling idly at the thrums along her beaded leggins.
"I told you I was near your age--twenty. But I do not really know how
old I am, I guess that I am twenty--thereabouts."
"You look sixteen; not more--except the haunting sorrow----"
"I can remember full that length of time.... I must be twenty, Euan.
When I was perhaps seven years old--or thereabout--I went to
school--first in Schenectady to a Mistress Lydon; where were a dozen
children near my age. And pretty Mistress Lydon taught us A--B--C and
manners--and nothing else that I remember now. Then for a long while I
was at home--which meant a hundred different lodgings--for we were ever
moving on from place to place, where his employment led him, from one
house to another, staying at one tavern only while his task remained
unfinished, then to the road again, north, south, west, or east,
wherever his fancy sped before to beckon him.... He was a strange man,
Euan."
"Your foster father?"
"Aye. And my foster mother, too, was a strange woman."
"Were they not kind to you?"
"Y-es, after their own fashion. They both were vastly different to
other folk. I was fed and clothed when anyone remembered to do it, And
when they had been fortunate, they sent me to the nearest school to be
rid of me, I think. I have attended many schools, Euan--in Germantown,
in Philadelphia, in Boston, in New York. I stayed not long in school at
New York because there our affairs went badly. And no one invited us in
that city--as often we were asked to stay as guests while the work
lasted--not very welcome guests, yet tolerated."
"What was your foster father's business?"
"He painted portraits.... I do not know how well he painted. But he
cared for nothing else, except his wife. When he spoke at all it was to
her of Raphael, and of Titian, and particularly of our Benjamin West,
who had his first three colours of the Indians, they say."
"I have heard so, too."
She nodded absently, fingering her leggin-fringe; then, with a sudden,
indrawn breath:
"We were no more than roving gypsies, you see, living from hand to
mouth, and moving on, always moving from town to town, remaining in one
place while there were portraits to paint--or tavern-signs, or
wagons--anything to keep us clothed and fed. Then there came a day in
Albany when matters mended over night, and the Patroon most kindly
commanded portraits of himself and family. It started our brief
prosperity.
"Other and thrifty Dutchmen now began to bargain for their portraits.
We took an old house on Pearl Street, and I was sent to school at Mrs.
Pardee's Academy for young ladies as a day pupil, returning home at
evening. About that time my foster mother became ill. I remember that
she lay on a couch all day, watching her husband paint. He and his art
were all she cared for. Me she seldom seemed to see--scarcely noticed
when she saw me--almost never spake to me, and there were days and
weeks, when I saw nobody in that silent house, and sat at meat
alone--when, indeed, anyone remembered I was a hungry, growing child,
and made provision for me.
"Schoolmates, at first, asked me to their homes. I would not go because
I could not ask them to my home in turn. And so grew up to womanhood
alone, and shy, and silent among my fellows; alone at home among the
shadows of that old Dutch house; ever alone. Always a haunted twilight
seemed to veil the living world from me, save when I walked abroad
along the river, thinking, thinking.
"Yet, in one sense I was not alone, Euan, for I was fanciful; and
roamed accompanied by those bright visions that unawakened souls
conjure for company; companioned by all creatures of the mind, from
saint to devil. Ai-me! For there were moments when I would have
welcomed devils, so that they rid me of my solitude, at hell's own
price!"
She drew a long, light breath, smiled at me; then:
"My foster mother died. And when she died the end also began for him. I
was taken from my school. So dreadfully was he broken that for months
he lay abed never speaking, scarcely eating. And all day long during
those dreary months I sat alone in that hushed house of death.
"Debt came first; then sheriffs; then suddenly came this war upon us.
But nothing aroused him from his lethargy; and all day long he brooded
there in silence, day after day, until our creditors would endure no
longer, and the bailiff menaced him. Confused and frightened, I
implored him to leave the city--jails seeming to me far more terrible
than death--and at last persuaded him to the old life once more.
"So, to avoid a debtor's prison, we took the open road again. But war
was ravishing the land; there was no work for him to do. We starved
slowly southward, day by day, shivered and starved from town to town
across the counter.
"Near to a camp of Continental troops there was a farm house. They took
me there as maid-at-all-work, out of charity, I think. My father
wandered over to the camp, and there, God alone knows why, enlisted--I
shall not tell you in what regiment. But it was Continental Line--a
gaunt, fierce, powder-blackened company, disciplined with iron. And
presently a dreadful thing befell us. For one morning before sunrise,
as I stood scouring the milk-pans by the flare of a tallow-dip, came to
me a yawning sergeant of this same regiment to tell me that, as my
foster father was to be shot at sunrise, therefore, he desired to see
me. And I remember how he yawned and yawned, this lank and bony
sergeant, showing within his mouth his yellow fangs!
"Oh, Euan! When I arrived, my foster father--who I then supposed was my
own father--lay in a tent a condemned deserter, seeming not even to
care, or to comprehend his dreadful plight. All the defence he ever
made, they say was that he had tired of dirty camps and foolish drums,
and wished to paint again. Euan, it was terrible. He did not
understand. He was a visionary--a man of endless silences, dreamy of
eye, gentle and vague of mind--no soldier, nor fitted to understand a
military life at all.
"I remember the smoky lantern burning red within the tent, and the vast
shadows it cast; and how he stood there, looking tranquilly at nothing
while I, frightened, sobbed on his breast. 'Lois,' he said, smiling,
'there is a bright company aloft, and watching me. Raphael and Titian
are of them. And West will come some day.' And, 'God!' he murmured,
wonderingly, 'What fellowship will be there! What knowledge to be
acquired a half hour hence--and leave this petty sphere to its own
vexed and petty wrangling, its kings and congresses, and its foolish
noise of drums.'
"For a while he paid me no attention, save in an absent-minded way to
pat my arm and say, 'There, there, child! There's nothing to it--no,
not anything to weep for. In less than half an hour my wife and I will
be together, listening while Raphael speaks--or Christ, perhaps, or
Leonardo.'
"Twice the brigade chaplain came to the tent, but seeing me retired.
The third time he appeared my foster father said: 'He's come to talk to
me of Christ and Raphael. It is pleasant to hear his kind assurance
that the journey to them is a swift one, done in the twinkling of an
eye.... So--I will say good-bye. Now go, my child.'
"Locked in my desperate embrace, his wandering gaze came back and met
my terror-stricken eyes. And after another moment a slow colour came
into his wasted face. 'Lois,' he said, 'before I go to join that
matchless company, I think you ought to know that which will cause you
to grieve less for me.... And so I tell you that I am not your
father.... We found you at our door in Caughnwagha, strapped to a
Seneca cradle-board. Nor had you any name. We did not seek you, but,
having you so, bowed to God's will and suffered you to remain with us.
We strove to do our duty by you----' His vague gaze wandered toward the
tent door where the armed guard stood, terrible and grim and ragged.
Then he unloosened my suddenly limp arms about him, muttering to
himself of something he'd forgotten; and, rummaging in his pockets
found it presently--a packet laced in deerskin. 'This,' he said, 'is
all we ever knew of you. It should be yours. Good-bye.'
"I strove to speak, but he no longer heard me, and asked the guard
impatiently why the Chaplain tarried. And so I crept forth into the
dark of dawn, more dead than living. And presently the rising sun
blinded my tear-drowned eyes, where I was kneeling in a field under a
tall tree.... I heard the dead-march rolling from the drums, and saw
them passing, black against the sunrise.... Then, filing slowly as the
seconds dragged, a thousand years passed in processional during the
next half hour--ending in a far rattle of musketry and a light smoke
blowing east across the fields----"
She passed her fingers across her brow, clearing it of the clinging
curls.
"They played a noisy march--afterward. I saw the ragged ranks wheel and
manoeuvre, stepping out Briskly to the jolly drums and fifes.... I
stood by the grave while the detail filled it cheerily.... Then I went
back to the farm house, through the morning dew and sunshine.
"When I had opened my packet and had understood its contents, I made of
my clothes a bundle and took the highway to ask of all the world where
lay the road to the vale Yndaia, and where might be found the Regiment
de la Reine. Wherever was a camp of soldiers, there I loitered, asking
the same question, day after day, month after month. I asked of
Indians--our Hudson guides, and the brigaded White Plains Indians. None
seemed to know--or if they did they made no answer. And the soldiers
did not know, and only laughed, taking me for some camp wanton----"
Again she passed her slender hand slowly across her eyes, shaking her
head.
"That I am not wholly bad amazes me at times.... I wonder if you know
how hunger tampers with the will? I mean more than mere hunger; I mean
that dreadful craving never completely satisfied--so that the ceaseless
famine gnaws and gnaws while the sick mind still sickens, brooding over
what the body seems to need of meat and drink and warmth--day after
day, night after night, endless and terrible." She flushed, but
continued calmly: "I had nigh sold myself to some young officer--some
gay and heedless boy--a dozen times that winter--for a bit of
bread--and so I might lie warm.... The army starved at Valley Forge....
God knows where and how I lived and famished through all that bitter
blackness.... An artillery horse had trodden on my hip where I lay
huddled in a cow-barn under the straw close to the horses, for the sake
of warmth. I hobbled for a month.... And so ill was I become in mind as
well as body that had any man been kind--God knows what had happened!
And once I even crept abroad meaning to take what offered. Do you deem
me vile, Euan?"
"No--no--" I could not utter another word.
She sighed, gazing at space.
"And the cold! Well--this is July, and I must try to put it from my
mind. But at times it seems to be still in my bones--deep bitten to the
very marrow. Ai-me! I have seen two years of centuries. Their scars
remain."
She rocked slightly forward and backward where she sat, her fingers
interlaced, twisting and clenching with her memories.
"Ai-me! Hunger and cold and men! Hunger and--men. But it was solitude
that nigh undid me. That was the worst of all--the endless silence."
The rain now swept the roof of bark above us, gust after gust swishing
across the eaves. Beyond the outer circle of the lantern light a mouse
moved, venturing no nearer.
"Lois?"
She lifted her head. "All that is ended now. Strive to forget."
She made no response.
"Ended," I said firmly. "And this is how it ends. I have with my
solicitor, Mr. Simon Hake, of Albany, two thousand pounds hard
sterling. How I first came by it I do not know. But Guy Johnson placed
it there for me, saying that it was mine by right. Now, today, I have
written to Mr. Hake a letter. In this letter I have commanded some few
trifles to be bought for you, such as all women naturally require."
"Euan!" she exclaimed sharply.
"I will not listen!" said I excitedly. "Do you listen now to me, for I
mean to have my way with you--say what you may----"
"I know--I know--but you have done too much already----"
"I have done nothing! Listen! I have bespoken trifles of no
value--nothing more--stockings, and shifts, and stays, and
powder-puffs, and other articles----"
"I will not suffer this!" she said, an angry colour in her cheeks.
"You suffer now--for lack even of handkerchiefs! I must insist----"
"Euan! My shifts and stays and stockings are none of your affair!" she
answered hotly.
"I make them mine!"
"No--nor is it your privilege to offer them!"
"My--what?"
"Privilege!" she said haughtily, flushing clear to her curly hair; and
left me checked. She added: "What you offer is impertinence--however
kindly meant. No friendship warrants it, and I refuse."
I know not what it was--perhaps my hurt and burning silence under the
sudden lash of her rebuff--but presently I felt her hand steal over
mine and tighten. And looked up, scowling, to see her eyes brimming
with tears and merriment.
"How much of me must you have, Euan? Even my privacy and pride? You
have given me friendship; you have clothed me to your fancy. You have
had scant payment in exchange--only a poor girl's gratitude. What have
I left to offer in return if you bestow more gifts? Give me no more--so
that you take from me no more than--gratitude."
"Comrades neither give nor take, Lois. What they possess belongs to
both in common."
"I know--it is so said--but--you have had of me for all your bounty
only my thanks--and----" she smiled tremulously, "----a wild rose-bud.
And you have given so much--so much--and I am far too poor to
render----"
"What have I asked of you!" I said impatiently.
"Nothing. And so I am the more inclined to give--I know not what."
"Shall I tell you what to offer me? Then offer me the privilege of
giving. It is the rarest gift within your power."
She sat looking at me while the soft colour waned and deepened in her
cheeks.
"I--give," she said in a voice scarce audible.
"Then," said I, very happily, "I am free to tell you that I have
commanded for your comfort a host of pretty things, and a big box of
wood and brass, with a stout hide outside, to keep your clothing in!
The lady of Captain Cresson, of the levies, has a noble one. Yours is
its mate. And into yours will fit your gowns and shoon, patches and
powder, and the hundred articles which every woman needs by day and
night. Also I've named you to Mr. Hake, so that, first writing for me
upon a slip of paper that I may send it to him--then writing your
request to him, you may make draughts for what you need upon our money,
which now lies with him. Do you understand me, Lois? You will need
money when the army leaves."
Her head moved slightly, acquiescent.
"So far so good, then. Now, when this army moves into the wilderness,
and when I go, and you remain, you will have clothing that befits you;
you will have means to properly maintain you; and I shall send you by
batteau to Mr. Hake, who will find lodging suitable for you--and be
your friend, and recommend you to his friends not only for my sake,
but, when he sets his eyes on you, for your own sake." I smiled, and
added:
"Hiero! Little rosy-throated pigeon of the woods! Loskiel has spoken!"
Now, as I ended, this same and silly wild-thing fell silently a-crying;
and never had I dreamed that any maid could be so full o' tears, when
by all rights she should have sat dimpling there, happy and gay, and
eager as I.
Out o' countenance again, and vexed in my mind, I sat silent,
fidgetting, made strange and cold and awkward by her tears. The warm
flush of self-approval chilled in my heart; and by and by a vague
resentment grew there.
"Euan?" she ventured, lifting her wet eyes.
"What?" said I ungraciously.
"H--have you a hanker? Else I use my scandalous skirt again----"
And the next instant we both were laughing there, she still in tears, I
with blithe heart to see her now surrender at discretion, with her grey
eyes smiling at me through a starry mist of tears, and the sweet mouth
tremulous with her low-voiced thanks.
"Ai-me!" she said. "What manner of boy is this, to hector me and have
his will? And now he sits there laughing, and convinced that when the
army marches I shall wear his finery and do his bidding. And so I
shall--if I remain behind."
"Lois! You can not go to Catharines-town! That's flat!"
"I've wandered hungry and ragged for two years, asking the way. Do you
suppose I have endured in vain? Do you suppose I shall give up now?"
"Lois!" I said seriously, "if it is true that the Senecas hold any
white captives, their liberation is at hand. But that business concerns
the army. And I promise you that if your mother be truly there among
those unhappy prisoners she shall be brought back safely from the Vale
Yndaia. I will tell Major Parr of this; he shall inform the General.
Have no fear or doubt, dear maid. If she is there, and human power can
