 
George was putting the prescription into 
the outside pocket of his coat, stupidly, 
as if he did not know what he was doing. 
''But, sir,'' he exclaimed, "I should have 
been spared!'' 
''Why?" inquired the other. "Because 
you are a man of position, because you are 
rich? Look around you, sir. See these 
works of art in my room. Do you imagine 
that such things have been presented to 
me by chimney-sweeps?" 
"But, Doctor," cried George, with a 
moan, "I have never been a libertine. 
There was never any one, you understand 
me, never any one could have been more 
careful in his pleasures. If I were to tell 
you that in all my life I have only had 
two mistresses, what would you answer to 
that?" 
"I would answer, that a single one would 
have been sufficient to bring you to me." 
"No, sir!" cried George. "It could not 
have been either of those women." He 
went on to tell the doctor about his first 
mistress, and then about Lizette. Finally 
he told about Henriette, how much he 
 
adored her. He could really use such a 
word — 'he loved her most tenderly. She 
was so good — 'and he had thought himself 
so lucky! 
As he went on, he could hardly keep 
from going to pieces. ''I had everything' 
he exclaimed, "everything a man needed! 
All who knew me envied me. And then I 
had to let those fellows drag me off to that 
miserable supper-party! And now here I 
am! My future is ruined, my whole exist- 
ence poisoned! What is to become of me? 
Everybody will avoid me — 'I shall be a 
pariah, a leper!'' 
He paused, and then in sudden wild 
grief exclaimed, "Come now! Would it 
not be better that I should take myself 
out of the way? At least, I should not 
suffer any more. You see that there could 
not be any one more unhappy than my- 
self — not any one, I tell you, sir, not any 
one!'' Completely overcome, he began to 
weep in his handkerchief. 
The doctor got up, and went to him. 
"You must be a man," he said, "and not 
cry like a child." 
 
"But sir' cried the young man, with 
tears riuming down his cheeks, ''if I had 
led a wild life, if I had passed my time 
in dissipation with chorus girls, then I 
could understand it. Then I would say 
that I had deserved it.'' 
The doctor exclaimed with emphasis, 
'•'No, no! You would not say it. How- 
ever, it is of no matter — 'go on." 
''I tell you that I would say it. I am 
honest, and I would say that I had 
deserved it. But no, I have deprived my- 
seK of every pleasure. I have worked, 
I have been a regular grind. And now, 
when I think of the shame that is in store 
for me, the disgusting things, the fright- 
ful catastrophes to which I am con- 
demned " 
"What is all this you are telling me?" 
asked the doctor, laughing. 
"Oh, I know, I know!" cried the other, 
and repeated what his friend had told him 
about the man in a wheel-chair. "And 
they used to call me handsome Raoul! 
That was my name — 'handsome Raoul!" 
"Now, my dear sir," said the doctor. 
 
cheerfully, ''wipe your eyes one last time, 
blow your nose, put your handkerchief into 
your pocket, and hear me dry-eyed." 
George obeyed mechanically. "But I 
give you fair warning," he said, "you are 
wasting your time." 
"I tell you — " began the other. 
"I know exactly what you are going to 
tell me!" cried George. 
"Well, in that case, there is nothing 
more for you to do here — 'run along." 
"Since I am here," said the patient 
submissively, "I will hear you." 
"Very well, then. I tell you that if you 
have the will and the perseverance, none 
of the things you fear will happen to you." 
"Of course, it is your duty to tell me 
that." 
"I tell you that there are one hundred 
thousand like you in Paris, alert, and 
seemingly well. Come, take what you 
were just saying — 'Steel-chairs. One 
doesn't see so many of them." 
"No, that's true," said George. 
"And besides," added the doctor, "a 
good many people who ride in them are 
 
not there for the cause you think. There 
is no more reason why you should be the 
victim of a catastrophe than any of the 
one hundred thousand. The disease is 
serious, nothing more.'' 
''You admit that it is a serious disease?'' 
argued George. 
''Yes.'' 
''One of the most serious?" 
''Yes, but you have the good fortune — " 
"The 'oo(i fortune?" 
* "Relatively, if you please. You have 
the good fortune to be infected with one 
of the diseases over which we have the 
most certain control." 
"Yes, yes," exclaimed George, "but the 
remedies are worse than the disease." 
"You deceive yourself," replied the 
other. 
"You are trying to make me believe that 
I can be cured?" 
"You can be." 
"And that I am not condenmed?" 
"I swear it to you." 
"You are not deceiving yourself, you 
are not deceiving me? Why, I was 
told—" 
 
The doctor laughed, contemptuously. 
"You were told, you were told! I'll 
wager that you know the laws of the 
Chinese concerning party-walls." 
"Yes, naturally' said George. "But I 
don't see what they have to do with it." 
"Instead of teaching you such things' 
was the reply, "it would have been a 
great deal better to have taught you 
about the nature and cause of diseases of 
this sort. Then you would have known 
how to avoid the contagion. Such knowl- 
edge should be spread abroad, for it is the 
most important knowledge in the world. 
It should be found in every newspaper." 
This remark gave George something of a 
shock, for his father had owned a little 
paper in the provinces, and he had a 
sudden vision of the way subscribers would 
have fallen off, if he had printed even so 
much as the name of this vile disease. 
"And yet," pursued the doctor, "you 
pubHsh romances about adultery!" 
"Yes' said George, "that's what the 
readers want." 
"They don't want the truth about vene- 
 
real diseases," exclaimed the other. ''If 
they knew the full truth, they would no 
longer think that adultery was romantic 
and interesting." 
He went on to give his advice as to the 
means of avoiding such diseases. There 
was really but one rule. It was: To love 
but one woman, to take her as a virgin, 
and to love her so much that she would 
never deceive you. "Take that from me," 
added the doctor, "and teach it to your 
son, when you have one." 
George's attention was caught by this 
last sentence. 
"You mean that I shall be able to have 
children?" he cried. 
"Certainly," was the reply. 
"Healthy children?" 
"I repeat it to you; if you take care of 
yourself properly for a long time, con- 
scientiously, you have little to fear." 
"That's certain?" 
"Ninety-nine times out of a hundred." 
George felt as if he had suddenly 
emerged from a dungeon. ''Why then," 
he exclaimed, "I shall be able to marry!" 
 
''You will be able to marry' was the 
reply. 
''You are not deceiving me? You would 
not give me that hope, you would not 
expose me? How soon will I be able to 
marry?'' 
''In three or four years' said the doctor. 
''What!" cried George, in consternation. 
''In three or four years? Not before?" 
''Not before.'' 
"How is that? Am I going to be sick 
all that time? Why, you told me just 
now — " 
Said the doctor: ''The disease will no 
longer be dangerous to you, yourself — 'but 
you will be dangerous to others." 
"But," the young man cried, in despair, 
"I am to be married a month from now." 
"That is impossible." 
"But I cannot do any differently. The 
contract is ready! The banns have been 
published! I have given my word!" 
"Well, you are a great one!" the doctor 
laughed. "Just now you were looking for 
your revolver! Now you want to be 
married within the month." 
 
"But; Doctor, it is necessary !'' 
"But I forbid it' 
"As soon as I knew that the disease is 
not what I imagined, and that I could be 
cured, naturally I didn't want to commit 
suicide. And as soon as I make up my 
mind not to commit suicide, I have to take 
up my regular life. I have to keep my 
engagements; I have to get married." 
"No,'' said the doctor. 
"Yes, yes!" persisted George, with blind 
obstinacy. "Why, Doctor, if I didn't marry 
it would be a disaster. You are talking 
about something you don't understand. I, 
for my part — 'it is not that I am anxious to 
be married. As I told you, I had almost a 
second family. Lizette's little brothers 
adored me. But it is my aunt, an old 
maid; and, also, my mother is crazy about 
the idea. If I were to back out now, she 
would die of chagrin. My aunt would 
disinherit me, and she is the one who has 
the family fortune. Then, too, there is my 
father-in-law, a regular dragoon for his 
principles — severe, violent. He never 
makes a joke of serious things, and I tell 
 
you it would cost me dear, terribly dear. 
And, besides, I have given my word." 
''You must take back your word." 
''You still insist?" exclaimed George, in 
despair. ''But then, suppose that it were 
possible, how could I take back my sig- 
nature which I put at the bottom of the 
deed? I have pledged myself to pay in 
two months for the attorney's practice I 
have purchased!" 
''Sir," said the doctor, "all these 
things — " 
''You are going to tell me that I was 
lacking in prudence, that I should never 
have disposed of my wife's dowry until 
after the honeymoon!" 
"Sir," said the doctor, again, "all these 
considerations are foreign to me. I am a 
physician, and nothing but a physician, 
and I can only tell you this: If you marry 
before three or four years, you will be a 
criminal." 
George broke out with a wild exclama- 
tion. "No sir, you are not merely a 
physician! You are also a confessor! You 
are not merely a scientist; and it is not 
 
enough for you that you observe me as you 
would some lifeless thing in your labora- 
tory, and say, 'You have this; science says 
that; now go along with you. All my 
existence depends upon you. It is your 
duty to listen to me, because when you 
know everything you will understand me, 
and you will find some way to cure me 
within a month.' 
''But," protested the doctor, "I wear 
myself out telling you that such means 
do not exist. I shall not be certain of your 
cure, as much as any one can be certain, 
in less than three or four years." 
George was almost beside himself. "I 
tell you you must find some means! Listen 
to me, sir — 'if I don't get married I don't 
get the dowry! And will you tell me how 
I can pay the notes I have signed?" 
"Oh," said the doctor, dryly, "if that is 
the question, it is very simple — 'I will give 
you a plan to get out of the affair. You 
will go and get acquainted with some rich 
man; you will do everything you can to 
gain his confidence; and when you have 
succeeded, you will plunder him." 
 
George shook his head. ''I am not in 
any mood for joking.' 
''I am not joking.' replied his adviser. 
" Rob that man, assassinate him even — 'that 
would be no worse crime than you would 
commit in taking a young girl in good 
health in order to get a portion of her 
dowry, when at the same time you would 
have to expose her to the frightful con- 
sequences of the disease which you would 
give her.'' 
'' Frightful consequences?" echoed George. 
*' Consequences of which death would not 
be the most frightful." 
''But sir, you were sa'dng to me just 
now — " 
''Just now I did not tell you everything. 
Even reduced, suppressed a little by our 
remedies, the disease remains mysterious, 
menacing, and in its sum, sufficiently 
grave. So it would be an infamy to expose 
your fiancee in order to avoid an incon- 
venience, however great that might be." 
But George was still not to be convinced. 
Was it certain that this misfortune would 
befall Henriette, even with the best atten- 
tion? 
 
Said the other: "I do not wish to lie to 
you. No, it is not absolutely certain, it 
is probable. And there is another truth 
which I wish to tell you now: our remedies 
are not infallible. In a certain number of 
cases — a very small number, scarcely five 
per cent — they have remained without 
effect. You might be one of those excep- 
tions, your wife might be one. What 
then?'' 
''What then?'' 
''l will employ a word you used just 
now, yourself. We should have to expect 
the worst catastrophes." 
George sat in a state of complete despair. 
''Tell me what to do, then," he said. 
"I can tell you only one thing: don't 
marry. You have a most serious blemish. 
It is as if you owed a debt. Perhaps no 
one will ever come to claim it; on the 
other hand, perhaps a pitiless creditor will 
come all at once, presenting a brutal 
demand for immediate payment. Come 
now — 'you are a businesss man. Marriage 
is a contract; to marry without saying 
anything — 'that means to enter into a 
 
bargain by means of passive dissimulation. 
That's the term, is it not? It is dishonesty, 
and it ought to come under the law.' 
George, being a lawyer, could appreciate 
the argument, and could think of nothing 
to say to it. 
''What shall I do?'' he asked. 
The other answered, ''Go to your father- 
in-law and tell him frankly the truth." 
''But," cried the young man, wildly, 
''there will be no question then of three or 
four years' delay. He will refuse his con- 
sent altogether." 
"If that is the case," said the doctor, 
''don't tell him anything." 
"But I have to give him a reason, or I 
don't know what he will do. He is the 
sort of man to give himself to the worst 
violence, and again my fiancee would be 
lost to me. Listen, Doctor. From every- 
thing I have said to you, you may perhaps 
think I am a mercenary man. It is true 
that I want to get along in the world, that 
is only natural. But Henriette has such 
qualities; she is so much better than I, 
that I love her, really, as people love in 
 
novel "% My greatest grief — it is not to 
give up the practice I have bought — 
although, indeed; it would be a bitter blow 
to me; my greatest grief would be to lose 
Henriette. If you could only see her, if 
you only knew her — 'then you would under- 
stand. I have her picture here — '' 
The young fellow took out his card-case, 
and offered a photograph to the doctor, 
who gently refused it. The other blushed 
with embarrassment. 
"I beg your pardon,'' he said, ''I am 
ridiculous. That happens to me, some- 
times. Only, put yourself in my place — 'I 
love her so!" His voice broke. 
"My dear boy," said the doctor, feel- 
ingly, ''that is exactly why you ought not 
to marry her." 
''But," he cried, "if I back out without 
saying anything they will guess the truth, 
and I shall be dishonored." 
"One is not dishonored because one is 
ill." 
"But with such a disease! People are 
so stupid. I myself, yesterday — I should 
have laughed at anyone I knew who had 
 
got into such a plight; I should have 
avoided him, I should have despised him!'' 
And suddenly George broke down again. 
''Oh!'' he cried, ''ii I were the onl}' one to 
suffer; but she — she is in love with me, 
I swear it to you! She is so good; and she 
will be so unhappy!'' 
The doctor answered, "She would be 
unhappier later on.'' 
''It will be a scandal!" George exclaimed. 
"You will avoid one far greater," the 
other replied. 
Suddenly George set his lips with resolu- 
tion. He rose from his seat. He took 
several twenty-franc pieces from his 
pocket and laid them quietly upon the 
doctor's desk — 'paying the fee in cash, so 
that he would not have to give his name 
and address. He took up his gloves, his 
cane and his hat, and rose. 
"I will think it over," he said. "I 
thank you, Doctor. I will come back next 
week as you have told me. That is — 
probably I will." 
He was about to leave. 
The doctor rose, and he spoke in a voice 
 
of furious anger. ''No.' he said, ''I shan't 
see you next week, and you won't even 
think it over. You came here knowing 
what you had; you came to ask advice of 
me, with the intention of paying no heed 
to it, unless it conformed to your wishes. 
A superficial honesty has driven you to 
take that chance in order to satisfy your 
conscience. You wanted to have some- 
body upon whom you could put off, bye 
and bye, the consequences of an act whose 
culpabihty you understand! No, don't 
protest! Many of those who come here 
think and act as you think, and as you 
wish to act; but the marriage made 
against my will has generally been the 
source of such calamities that now I am 
always afraid of not having been per- 
sup-'ive enough, and it even seems to me 
that I am a little to blame for these mis- 
fortunes. I should have been able to pre- 
vent them; they would not have happened 
if those who are the authors of them knew 
what I know and had seen what I have 
seen. Swear to me, sir, that you are 
going to break off that marriage!" 
 
George was greatly embarrassed, and 
unwilling to reply. ''I cannot swear to 
you at all, Doctor; I can only tell you 
again that I will think it over.' 
''Think it over?'' 
''What you have told me." 
"What I have told you is true! You 
cannot bring any new objections; and I 
have answered those which you have pre- 
sented to me; therefore, your mind ought 
to be made up." 
Groping for a reply, George hesitated. 
He could not deny that he had made 
inquiry about these matters before he had 
come to the doctor. But he said that he 
was not at all certain that he had this 
disease. The doctor declared it, and per- 
haps it was true, but the most learned 
physicians were sometimes deceived. 
He remembered something he had read 
in one of the medical books. ''Dr. Ricord 
maintains that after a certain period the 
disease is no longer contagious. He has 
proven his contentions by examples. 
Today you produce new examples to show 
that he is wrong! Now, I want to do 
 
what's right, but surely I have the right 
to think it over. And when I think it 
over, I reahze that all the evils with which 
you threaten me are only probable evils. 
In spite of your desire to terrify me, you 
have been forced to admit that possibly 
my marriage would not have any trouble- 
some consequence for my wife.' 
The doctor found difficulty in restraining 
himself. But he said, ''Go on. I will 
answer you afterwards." 
And George blundered ahead in his 
desperation. ''Your remedies are power- 
ful, you tell me; and for the calamities of 
which you speak to befall me, I would have 
to be among the rare exceptions — also my 
wife would have to be among the number 
of those rare exceptions. If a mathemati- 
cian were to apply the law of chance to 
these facts, the result of his operation 
would show but slight chance of a catas- 
trophe, as compared with the absolute 
certainty of a series of misfortunes, suffer- 
ings, troubles, tears, and perhaps tragic 
accidents which the breaking of my engage- 
ment would cause. So I say that the 
 
mathematician — 'who is, even more than 
you, a man of science, a man of a more 
infallible science — 'the mathematician would 
conclude that wisdom was not with you 
doctors, but with me.'' 
"You believe it, sir!" exclaimed the 
other. "But you deceive yourself." And 
he continued, driving home his point with 
a finger which seemed to George to pierce 
his very soul. "Twenty cases identical 
with your own have been patiently ob- 
served, from the beginning to the end. 
Nineteen times the woman was infected 
by her husband; you hear me, sir, nineteen 
times out of twenty! You believe that the 
disease is without danger, and you take to 
yourself the right to expose your wife to 
what you call the chance of your being 
one of those exceptions, for whom our 
remedies are without effect. Very well; 
it is necessary that you should know every- 
thing; it is necessary that you should 
know the disease which your wife, without 
being consulted, will run a chance of con- 
tracting. Take that book, sir; it is the 
work of my teacher. Read it yourself. 
Here, I have marked the passage." 
 
He held out the open book; but George 
could not lift a hand to take it. 
''You do not wish to read it?'' the other 
continued. '' Listen to me.'' And in a 
voice trembling with passion, he read: " 'I 
have watched the spectacle of an xmfor- 
tunate young woman, turned into a veri- 
table monster by means of a syphilitic 
infection. Her face, or rather let me say 
what was left of her face, was nothing but 
a flat surface seamed with scars.' '' 
* George covered his face, exclaiming, 
"Enough, sir! Have mercy!'' 
But the other cried, "No, no! I will go 
to the very end. I have a duty to per- 
form, and I will not be stopped by the 
sensibility of your nerves." 
He wxnt on reading: " 'Of the upper lip 
not a trace was left; the ridge of the upper 
gums appeared perfectly bare.' " But then, 
at the young man's protests, his resolution 
failed him. "Come," he said, "I will stop. 
I am sorry for you — 'you who accept for 
another person, for the woman you say 
you love, the chance of a disease which 
you cannot even endure to hear described. 
 
Now, from whom did that woman get 
syphilis? It is not I who am speaking, it 
is the book. 'From a miserable scoundrel 
who was not afraid to enter into matrimony 
when he had a secondary eruption. All 
that was established later on — 'and who, 
moreover, had thought it best not to let his 
wife be treated for fear of awakening her 
suspicions!' '' 
The doctor closed the book with a bang. 
"What that man has done, sir, is what you 
want to do.'' 
George was edging toward the door; he 
could no longer look the doctor in the eye. 
"I should deserve all those epithets and 
still more brutal ones if I should marry, 
knowing that my marriage would cause 
such horrors. But that I do not believe. 
You and your teachers — you are specialists, 
and consequently you are driven to at- 
tribute everything to the disease you make 
the subject of your studies. A tragic case, 
an exceptional case, holds a kind of fascina- 
tion for you; you think it can never be 
talked about enough." 
''I have heard that argument before," 
said the doctor, with an effort at patience. 
 
"Let me go on, I beg you," pleaded 
George. "You have told me that out of 
every seven men there is one syphilitic. 
You have told me that there are one hun- 
dred thousand in Paris, coming and going, 
alert, and apparently well.'' 
"It is true," said the doctor, "that there 
are one hundred thousand who are actually 
at this moment not visibly xmder the 
influence of the disease. But many thou- 
sands have passed into our hospitals, vic- 
tims of the most frightful ravages that our 
poor bodies can support. These — 'you do 
not see them, and they do not count for 
you. But again, if it concerned no one but 
yourself, you might be able to argue thus. 
What I declare to you, what I affirm with 
all the violence of my conviction, is that 
you have not the right to expose a human 
creature to such chances — rare, as I know, 
but terrible, as I know still better. 
What have you to answer to that?" 
"Nothing," stammered George, brought 
to his knees at last. "You are right about 
that. I don't know what to think." 
"And in forbidding you marriage," con- 
 
tinued the doctor, ''is it the same as if I 
forbade it forever? Is it the same as if I 
told you that you could never be cured? 
On the contrary, I hold out to you every 
hope; but I demand of you a delay of 
three or four years, because it will take me 
that time to find out if you are among the 
number of those unfortunate ones whom I 
pity with all my heart, for whom the 
disease is without mercy; because during 
that time you will be dangerous to your 
wife and to your children. The children 
I have not yet mentioned to you.' 
Here the doctor's voice trembled slightly. 
He spoke with moving eloquence. ''Come, 
sir, you are an honest man; you are too 
young for such things not to move you; 
you are not insensible to duty. It is 
impossible that I shan't be able to find a 
way to your heart, that I shan't be able to 
make you obey me. My emotion in speak- 
ing to you proves that I appreciate your 
suffering, that I suffer with you. It is in 
the name of my sincerity that I implore 
you. You have admitted it — that you 
have not the right to expose your wife to 
 
such miseries. But it is not only your wife 
that you strike; you may attack in her 
your own children. I exclude you for a 
moment from my thought — you and her. 
It is in the name of these innocents that I 
implore you; it is the future, it is the race 
that I defend. Listen to me, listen to me! 
Out of the twenty households of which I 
spoke, only fifteen had children; these 
fifteen had twenty-eight. Do you know 
how many out of these twenty-eight sur- 
vived? Three, sir! Three out of twenty- 
eight ! Syphilis is above everything a mur- 
derer of children. Herod reigns in France, 
and over all the earth, and begins each 
year his massacre of the innocents; and 
if it be not blasphemy against the sacred- 
ness of life, I say that the most happy are 
those who have disappeared. Visit our 
children's hospitals! We know too well 
the child of syphilitic parents; the type is 
classical; the doctors can pick it out any- 
where. Those httle old creatures who 
have the appearance of having already 
lived, and who have kept the stigmata of 
all our infirmities, of all our decay. They 
 
are the victims of fathers who have mar- 
ried, being ignorant of what you know — 
things which I should like to go and cry 
out in the public places.' 
The doctor paused, and then in a solemn 
voice continued: ''I have told you all, 
without exaggeration. Think it over. 
Consider the pros and cons; sum up the 
possible misfortunes and the certain miseries. 
But disregard yourseK, and consider that 
there are in one side of the scales the mis- 
fortunes of others, and in the other your 
own. Take care that you are just.'' 
George was at last overcome. ''Very 
well," he said, ''I give way. I won't get 
married. I will invent some excuse; I 
will get a delay of six months. More than 
that, I cannot do." 
The doctor exclaimed, ''I need three 
years — 'I need four years!" 
''No, Doctor!" persisted George. "You 
can cure me in less time than that." 
The other answered, "No! no! no!" 
George caught him by the hand, implor- 
ingly. "Yes! Science is all powerful!" 
"Science is not God," was the reply. 
"There are no longer any miracles." 
 
''If only you wanted to do it!'' cried the 
young man, hysterically. ''You are a 
learned man; seek, invent, find something! 
Try some new plan with me; give me 
double the dose, ten times the dose; make 
me suffer. I give myself up to you; I will 
endure everything — 'I swear it! There 
ought to be some way to cure me within 
six months. Listen to me! I tell you I 
can't answer for myself with that delay. 
Come; it is in the name of my wife, in the 
name of my children, that I implore you. 
Do something for them!" 
The doctor had reached the Hmit of 
his patience. ''Enough, sir!" he cried. 
"Enough!" 
But nothing could stop the wretched 
man. "On my knees!" he cried. "I put 
myseK on my knees before you! Oh! if 
only you would do it! I would bless you; 
I would adore you, as one adores a god! 
All my gratitude, all my hfe — 'have my 
fortune! For mercy's sake, Doctor, do 
something; invent something; make some 
discovery — 'have pity!" 
The doctor answered, gravely, "Do you 
 
wish me to do more for you than for the 
others?" 
George answered, unblushingly, "Yes!" 
He was beside himself with terror and 
distress. 
The other's reply was delivered in a 
solemn tone. "Understand, sir, for every 
one of our patients we do all that we can, 
whether it be the greatest personage, or 
the last comer to our hospital clinic. We 
have no secrets in reserve for those who are 
more fortunate, or less fortunate than the 
others, and who are in a hurry to be 
cured." 
George gazed at him for a moment in 
bewilderment and despair, and then sud- 
denly bowled his head. "Good-by, Doctor," 
he answered. 
"Au re voir, sir," the other corrected — 
with what proved to be prophetic under- 
standing. For George was destined to see 
him again — even though he had made up 
his mind to the contrary! 
CHAPTER III 
GEORGE DUPONT had the most 
important decision of his Hfe to 
make; but there was never very 
much doubt what his decision would be. 
On the one hand was the definite certainty 
that if he took the doctor's advice, he would 
wreck his business prospects, and perhaps 
also lose the woman he loved. On the other 
hand were vague and uncertain possibilities 
which it was difficult for him to make real 
to himself. It was all very well to wait 
awhile to be cured of the dread disease; 
but to wait three or four years — 'that was 
simply preposterous! 
He decided to consult another physi- 
cian. He would find one this time who 
would not be so particular, who would 
be willing to take some trouble to cure 
him quickly. He began to notice the 
advertisements which were scattered over 
 
the pages of the newspapers he read. 
There were apparently plenty of doctors 
in Paris who could cure him, who were 
willing to guarantee to cure him. After 
much hesitation, he picked out one whose 
advertisement sounded the most convincing. 
The office was located in a cheap quarter. It was a dingy place, not encumbered with works of art, but with a few 
books covered with dust. The doctor 
himself was stout and greasy, and he 
rubbed his hands with anticipation at the 
sight of so prosperous-looking a patient. 
But he was evidently a man of experience, 
for he knew exactly what was the matter 
with George, almost without the formality 
of an examination. Yes, he could cure 
him, quickly, he said. There had recently 
been great discoveries made — new meth- 
ods which had not reached the bulk of 
the profession. He laughed at the idea 
of three or four years. That was the 
way with those specialists! When one 
got forty francs for a consultation, naturally, 
one was glad to drag out the case. There 
were tricks in the medical trade, as in 
 
all others. A doctor had to live; when he 
had a big name, he had to live expensively. 
The new physician wrote out two 
prescriptions, and patted George on the 
shoulder as he went away. There was no 
need for him to worry; he would surely 
be well in three months. If he would 
put off his marriage for six months, he 
would be doing everything within reason. 
And meantime, there was no need for him 
to worry himself — 'things would come out 
all right. So George went away, feeling 
as if a mountain had been lifted from his 
shoulders. 
He went to see Henriette that same 
evening, to get the matter settled. '' Hen- 
riette, '' he said, ''I have to tell you some- 
thing very important — something rather 
painful. I hope you won't let it disturb 
you too much.'' 
She was gazing at him in alarm. ''What 
is it?" 
''Why," he said, blushing in spite of 
himself, and regretting that he had begun 
the matter so precipitately, ''for some 
time I've not been feeling quite well. I've 
 
been having a slight cough. Have you 
noticed it?" 
''Why no!" exclaimed Henriette, anx- 
iously. 
''Well, today I went to see a doctor, 
and he says that there is a possibility — 
you understand it is nothing very serious 
— 'but it might be — 'I might possibly have 
lung trouble. 
'' George!" cried the girl, in horror. 
He put his hand upon hers. '' Don't be 
frightened," he said. ''It will be all right, 
only I have to take care of myself." How 
very dear of her, he thought — 'to be so 
much worried! 
''George, you ought to go away to the 
country!" she cried. ''You have been 
working too hard. I always told you 
that if you shut yourseh' up so much — " 
''I am going to take care of myself," 
he said. "I realize that it is necessary. 
I shall be all right — 'the doctor assured me 
there was no doubt of it, so you are not 
to distress yourself. But meantime, here 
is the trouble: I don't think it would be 
right for me to marry until I am perfectly 
well." 
 
Henriette gave an exclamation of dismay. 
''I am sure we should put it off.' he 
went on, "it would be only fair to you." 
''But, George!'' she protested. ''Surely 
it can't be that serious!" 
"We ought to wait.' he said. "You 
ought not to take the chance of being 
married to a consumptive." 
The other protested in consternation. 
He did not look like a consumptive; she 
did not beheve that he was a consumptive. 
She was willing to take her chances. She 
loved him, and she was not afraid. But 
George insisted — 'he was sure that he ought 
not to marry for six months. 
"Did the doctor advise that?" asked 
Henriette. 
"No," he replied, "but I made up my 
mind after talking to him that I must do 
the fair and honorable thing. I beg you 
to forgive me, and to beheve that I know 
best." 
George stood firmly by this position, and 
so in the end she had to give way. It 
did not seem quite modest in her to con- 
tinue persisting. 
 
George volunteered to write a letter to 
her father; and he hoped this would 
settle the matter without further dis- 
cussion. But in this he was disappointed. 
There had to be a long correspondence 
with long arguments and protestations 
from Henriette's father and from his own 
mother. It seemed such a singular whim. 
Everybody persisted in diagnosing his symp- 
toms, in questioning him about what the 
doctor had said, who the doctor was, how 
he had come to consult him — all of which, 
of course, was very embarrassing to George, 
