York.  A beach-comber, a dock-walloper, if there ever was one."
"Mallow, you'll have to explain that instantly."
"Hold your horses, my friend.  What I'm telling you is on the level.
She's been hobnobbing with the fellow all the way down from the
Irrawaddy, so I'm told.  Never spoke to any one else.  Made him sit at
her side at table and jabbered Italian at him, as if she didn't want
others to know what she was talking about.  I know the man.  Fired him
from my plantation, when I found out what he was.  Can't recall his
name just now, but he is known out here as Warrington; Parrot & Co."
The consul-general was genuinely shocked.
"You can't blame me for thinking things," went on Mallow.  "What man
wouldn't?  Ask her about Warrington.  You'll find that I'm telling the
truth, all right."
"If you are, then she has made one of those mistakes women make when
they travel alone.  I shall see her at tea and talk to her.  But I do
not thank you, Mallow, for telling me this.  A finer, loyaler-hearted
girl doesn't live.  She might have been kind out of sympathy."
Mallow bit off the tip of his cigar.  "He's a handsome beggar, if you
want to know."
"I resent that tone.  Better drop the subject before I lose my temper.
I'll have your papers ready for you in the morning."  The
consul-general caught up his pen savagely to indicate that the
interview was at an end.
"All right," said Mallow good-naturedly.  "I meant no harm.  Just
naturally curious.  Can't blame me."
"I'm not blaming you.  But it has disturbed me, and I wish to be alone
to think it over."
Mallow lounged out, rather pleased with himself.  His greatest pleasure
in life was in making others uncomfortable.
The consul-general bit the wooden end of his pen and chewed the
splinters of cedar.  He couldn't deny that it was like Elsa to pick up
some derelict for her benefactions.  But to select a man who was
probably wanted by the American police was a frightful misfortune.
Women had no business to travel alone.  It was all very well when they
toured in parties of eight or ten; but for a charming young woman like
Elsa, attended by a spinster companion who doubtless dared not offer
advice, it was decidedly wrong.  And thereupon he determined that her
trip to Yokohama should find her well guarded.
"I beg your pardon," said a pleasant voice.
The consul-general had been so deeply occupied by his worry that he had
not noticed the entrance of the speaker.  He turned impatiently.  He
saw a tall blond man, bearded and tanned, with fine clear blue eyes
that met his with the equanimity of the fearless.
XIII
AFTER TEN YEARS
The consul-general had, figuratively, a complete assortment of masks,
such as any thorough play-actor might have, in more or less constant
demand, running the gamut from comedy to tragedy.  Some of these masks
grew dusty between ships, but could quickly be made presentable.
Sometimes, when large touring parties came into port, he confused his
masks, being by habit rather an absent-minded man.  But he possessed a
great fund of humor, and these mistakes gave him laughable
recollections for days.
He saw before him an exquisite, as the ancient phrase goes, backed by
no indifferent breed of manhood.  Thus, he believed that here was a
brief respite (as between acts) in which the little plastic hypocrisies
could be laid aside.  The pleasant smile on his high-bred face was all
his own.
"And what may I do for you, sir?"  He expected to be presented with
letters of introduction, and to while away a half-hour in the agreeable
discussion of mutual acquaintance.
"I should like a few minutes' private talk with you," began the
well-dressed stranger.  "May I close the door?"  The consul-general,
with a sense of disappointment, nodded.  The blond man returned and sat
down.  "I don't know how to begin, but I want you to copy this
cablegram and send it under your own name.  Here it is; read it."
So singular a request filled the consul-general with astonishment.
Rather mechanically he accepted the slip of paper, adjusted his
glasses, and read--
"The Andes Construction Company, New York: A former employee of yours
wishes to make a restitution of eight thousand dollars, with interest
to date.  He dares not give his name to me, but he wishes to learn if
this belated restitution will lift the ban against his returning to
America and resuming his citizenship.  Reply collect."
"This is an extraordinary request to make to me, sir."
"I know it."
"But why bring it to me?"
"Could I possibly offer that to the cable operator?  Without name or
address?  No; I could not do it without being subjected to a thousand
questions, none of which I should care to answer.  So I came to you.
Passing through your hands, no one will question it.  Will you do this
favor for a poor unfortunate devil?"
Oddly enough, the other could not get away from his original
impression.  The clothes, the way the man wore them, the clarity of his
eyes, the abundant health that was expressed by the tone of the skin,
derided such a possibility as the cablegram made manifest.
He forced the smile back to his lips.  "Are you sure you're not hoaxing
me?"
"No.  I am the victim of the hoax," enigmatically.  "If one may call
the quirks of fate by the name of hoax," the stranger added.  "Will you
send it?"
The years he had spent in the consular service had never brought before
him a situation of this order.  He did not know exactly what to do.  He
looked out of the window, into the hotel-court, at the sky which
presently would become overcast with the daily rain-clouds.  By and by
he remembered the man waiting patiently at his elbow.
"What is your name?"
"My real name, or the one by which I am known here?"
"Your real one."
"I'd rather not give that until I hear from New York."
"Well, that is reasonable."
"I am known out here by the name of Warrington."
Warrington.  The puzzlement vanished from the older man's face, and his
eyes became alert, renewing from another angle their investigation of
the stranger.  Warrington.  So this was the man?  He could understand
now.  Who could blame a girl for making a mistake when he, a seasoned
veteran, had been beguiled by the outward appearance of the man?
Mallow was right.  He was a handsome beggar.
"I promise to send this upon one condition."
"I accept without question," readily.
"It is that you must keep away from Elsa Chetwood, now and hereafter.
You made her acquaintance under false pretenses."
"I deny that.  Not under false pretenses."  How quickly things went
about!  "Let me tell you how I met her."
The consul-general listened; he listened with wonder and interest, and
more, with conviction that the young man had been perfectly honest.
But the knowledge only added to his growing alarm.  It would not be
difficult for such a man to win the regard of any young woman.
"And you told her what you had done?"
"Yes."
"Your first misstep?" touching the cablegram.
"My first and only misstep.  I was a careless, happy-go-lucky young
fool."  The sky outside also had attraction for Warrington.  A thousand
times a fool!
"How long ago did this happen?"
"Ten years this coming April."
"And now, after all this time, you wish to go back?"
"I have wished to go back many times, but never had money enough.  I
have plenty now.  Oh, I made it honestly," smiling.  "In oil, at Prome.
Here's a cutting from a Rangoon paper."
The other read it carefully.  It was romance, romance such as he liked
to read in his books, but which was mighty bewildering to have at his
elbow in actuality.  What a life the man must have led!  And here he
was, with no more evidence of the conflict than might be discerned in
the manliness of his face and the breadth and depth of his shoulders.
He dropped the cutting, impatiently.
"Don't you believe it?"
"Believe it?  Oh, this?  Yes," answered the consul-general.  "What I
can not believe is that I am awake.  I can not quite make two and two
equal four."
"Which infers?"
"That I can not . . .  Well, you do not look like a man who would rob
his employer of eight thousand dollars."
"Much obliged."
"Parrot & Co.  It's odd, but I recollect that title.  You were at
Udaipur during the plague."
Warrington brightened.  "So that's got about?  I happened to be there,
working on the prince's railway."
"I will send the cable at once.  You will doubtless hear from New York
in the morning.  But you must not see Miss Chetwood again."
"You will let me bid her good-by?  I admire and respect her more than
any other woman.  She does not know it, for as yet her soul is asleep;
but she is one of those few women God puts on earth for the courage and
comfort of man.  Only to say good-by to her.  Here in this office, if
you wish."
"I agree to that."
"Thank you again."  Warrington rose.
"I am genuinely sorry for you.  If they say no, what will you do?"
"Go back just the same.  I have another debt to cancel."
"Call in the morning.  I'll let you know what the charges are."
"I forgot.  Here are twenty pounds.  You can return the balance when I
call.  I am very grateful."
"By the way, there is a man here by the name of Mallow," began the
consul-general.
"Yes," interrupted Warrington, with a smile which was grim and cruel.
"I expect to call upon him.  He owes me something like fifty pounds,
and I am going to collect it."  Then he went out.
The consul-general dropped Mallow's perfecto into the waste-basket and
lighted his pipe.  Once more he read the cablegram.  The Andes
Construction Company.  What a twist, what an absurd kink in the skein!
Nearly all of Elsa's wealth lay bound up in this enormous business
which General Chetwood had founded thirty odd years before.  And
neither of them knew!
"I am not a bad man at heart," he mused, "but I liked the young man's
expression when I mentioned that bully Mallow."
He joined his family at five.  He waved aside tea, and called for a
lemon-squash.
"Elsa, I am going to give you a lecture."
"Didn't I tell you?" cried Elsa to the wife.  "I felt in my bones that
he was going to say this very thing."  She turned to her old-time
friend.  "Go on; lecture me."
"In the first place, you are too kind-hearted."
"That will be news to my friends.  They say I have a heart of ice."
"And what you think is independence of spirit is sometimes
indiscretion."
"Oh," said Elsa, becoming serious.
"A man came into my office to-day.  He is a rich copra-grower from
Penang.  He spoke of you.  You passed him on going out.  If I had been
twenty years younger I'd have punched his ugly head.  His name is
Mallow, and he's not a savory chap."
Elsa's cheeks burned.  She never would forget the look in that man's
eyes.  The look might have been in other men's eyes, but
conventionality had always veiled it; she had never seen it before.
"Go on;" but her voice was unsteady.
"Somewhere along the Irrawaddy you made the acquaintance of a young man
who calls himself Warrington, familiarly known as Parrot & Co.  I'll be
generous.  Not one woman in a thousand would have declined to accept
the attentions of such a man.  He is cultivated, undeniably
good-looking, a strong man, mentally and physically."
Elsa's expression was now enigmatical.
"There's not much veneer to him.  He fooled me unintentionally.  He was
quite evidently born a gentleman, of a race of gentlemen.  His is not
an isolated case.  One misstep, and the road to the devil."
The consul-general's wife sent a startled glance at Elsa, who spun her
sunshade to lighten the tension of her nerves.
"He confessed frankly to me this morning that he is a fugitive from
justice.  He wishes to return to America.  He recounted the
circumstances of your meeting.  To me the story appeared truthful
enough.  He said that you sought the introduction because of his
amazing likeness to the man you are going home to marry."
"That is true," replied Elsa.  "Uncle Jim, I have traveled pretty much
over this world, and I never met a gentleman if Warrington is not one."
There was unconscious belligerency in her tone.
"Ah, there's the difficulty which women will never be made to
understand.  Every man can, at one time or another, put himself upon
his good behavior.  Underneath he may be a fine rascal."
"Not this one," smiling.  "He warned me against himself a dozen times,
but that served to make me stubborn.  The fault of my conduct," acidly,
"was not in making this pariah's acquaintance.  It lies in the fact
that I had nothing to do with the other passengers, from choice.  That
is where I was indiscreet.  But why should I put myself out to gain the
good wishes of people for whom I have no liking; people I shall
probably never see again when I leave this port?"
"You forget that some of them will be your fellow passengers all the
way to San Francisco.  My child, you know as well as I do that there
are some laws which the Archangel Michael would have to obey, did he
wish to inhabit this earth for a while."
"Poor Michael!  And if you do not obey these laws, people talk."
"Exactly.  There are two sets of man-made laws.  One governs the
conduct of men and the other the conduct of women."
"And a man may break any one of these laws, twist it, rearrange it to
suit his immediate needs.  On the other hand, the woman is always
manacled."
"Precisely."
"I consider it horribly unfair."
"So it is.  But if you wish to live in peace, you must submit."
"Peace at that price I have no wish for.  This man Mallow lives within
the pale of law; the other man is outside of it.  Yet, of the two,
which would you be quickest to trust?"
The consul-general laughed.  "Now you are appealing not to my knowledge
of the world but to my instinct."
"Thanks."
"Is there any reason why you should defend Mr. Warrington, as he calls
himself?"
The consul-general's wife desperately tried to catch her husband's eye.
But either he did not see the glance or he purposely ignored it.
"In defending Mr. Warrington I am defending myself."
"A good point."
"My dear friend," Elsa went on, letting warmth come into her voice once
more, "my sympathy went out to that man.  He looked so lonely.  Did you
notice his eyes?  Can a man look at you the way he does and be bad?"
"I have seen Mallow dozens of times.  I know him to be a scoundrel of
sorts; but I doubt if bald sunlight could make him blink.  Liars have
first to overcome the flickering and wavering of the eyes."
"He said that."
"Who, Warrington?" puzzled.
"He said almost the same thing.  Would he say that if he were a liar?"
"I haven't accused him of being that.  Indeed, he struck me as a
truthful young man.  But he confessed to me that ten years ago he
robbed his employer of eight thousand dollars.  By the way, what is the
name of the firm your father founded?"
"The Andes Construction Company.  Do you think we could find him
something to do there?" eagerly.  "He builds bridges."
"I shouldn't advise that.  But we have gone astray.  You ought not to
see him again."
"I have made up my mind not to."
"Then pardon me for all this pother.  I know what is in your heart,
Elsa.  You want to help the poor devil back to what he was; but he'll
have to do that by himself."
"It is a hateful world!"  Elsa appealed to the wife.
"It is, Elsa, dear.  But James is right."
"You'll get your balance," said the guardian, "when you reach home.
When's the wedding?"
"I'm not sure that I'm going to be married."  Elsa twirled the sunshade
again.  "I really wish I had stayed at home.  I seem all topsy-turvy.
I could have screamed when I saw the man standing on the ledge above
the boat that night.  No; I do not believe I shall marry.  Fancy
marrying a man and knowing that his ghost was at the same time
wandering about the earth!"  She rose and the sunshade described a
half-circle as she spoke.  "Oh, bother with it all!  Dinner at eight,
in the big dining-room."
"Yes.  But the introductions will be made on the cafe-veranda.  These
people out here have gone mad over cock-tails.  And look your best,
Elsa.  I want them to see a real American girl to-night.  I'll have
some roses sent up to you."
Elsa had not the heart to tell him that all interest in his dinner had
suddenly gone from her mind; that even the confusion of the colonel no
longer appealed to her bitter malice.  She knew that she was going to
be bored and miserable.  Well, she had promised.  She would put on her
best gown; she would talk and laugh and jest because she had done these
things many times when her heart was not in the play of it.
When she was gone, the consul-general's wife said: "Poor girl!"
Her husband looked across the room interestedly.  "Why do you say that?"
"I am a woman."
"That phrase is the City of Refuge.  All women fly to it when
confronted by something they do not understand."
"Oh, but I do understand.  And that's the pity of it."
XIV
ACCORDING TO THE RULES
Elsa sought the hotel rickshaw-stand, selected a sturdy coolie, and
asked to be run to the botanical gardens and back.  She wanted to be
alone, wanted breathing-space, wanted the breeze to cool her hot
cheeks.  For she was angry at the world, angry at the gentle
consul-general, above all, angry at herself.  To have laid herself open
to the charge of indiscretion!  To have received a lecture, however
kindly intended, from the man she loved and respected next to her
father!  To know that persons were exchanging nods and whispers behind
her back!
It was a detestable world.  It was folly to be honest, to be kind, to
be individual, to have likes and dislikes, unless these might be
regulated by outsiders.  Why should she care what people said?  She did
not care.  What made her furious was the absolute stupidity of their
deductions.  She had not been indiscreet; she had been merely kindly
and human; and if they wanted to twist and misconstrue her actions, let
them do so.
She hated the word "people."  It seemed to signify all the useless
inefficient persons in the world, massed together after the manner of
sheep and cattle, stupidest of beasts, always wanting something and
never knowing what; not an individual among them.  And they expected
her to conform with their ways!  Was it necessary for her to tell these
meddlers why she had sought the companionship of a self-admitted
malefactor? . . .  Oh, that could not be!  If evil were to be found in
such a man, then there was no good anywhere.  What was one misstep?
Was it not written that all of us should make one or more?  And surely
this man had expiated his.  Ten years in this wilderness, ten long
lonely years.  How many men would have stood up against the temptations
of this exile?  Few, if any, among the men she knew.  And they
criticized her because she was sorry for the man.  Must she say to
them: "Dear people, I spoke to this man and engaged his companionship
because I was sorry for him; because he looked exactly like the man I
have promised to marry!"  It was ridiculous.  She laughed.  The dear
people!
Once or twice she saw inwardly the will-o'-the-wisp lights of her soul.
But resolutely she smothered the sparks and bolstered up the pitiful
lie.
The coolie stopped suddenly.
"Go on," she said.
But the coolie smiled and wiped his shaven poll.  Elsa gazed at the
hotel-veranda in bewilderment.  Slowly she got out of the rickshaw and
paid the fare.  She had not the slightest recollection of having seen
the gardens.  More than this, it was a quarter to seven.  She had been
gone exactly an hour.
"Perhaps, after all," she thought, "I am hopeless.  They may be right;
I ought to have a guardian.  I am not always accountable for what I do."
She dressed leisurely and with calculation.  She was determined to
convince every one that she was a beautiful woman, above suspicion,
above reproach.  The spirit within her was not, however, in direct
accord with this determination.  Malice stirred into life again; and
she wanted to hurt some one, hurt deeply.  It was only the tame in
spirit who, when injured, submitted without murmur or protest.  And
Elsa, only dimly aware of it, was mortally hurt.
"Elsa," said Martha, "that frown will stay there some day, and never go
away."
Elsa rubbed it out with her finger.  "Martha, do you recall that tiger
in the cage at Jaipur?  How they teased him until he lost his temper
and came smashing against the bars?  Well, I sympathize with that
brute.  He would have been peaceful enough had they let him be.  Has
Mr. Warrington called to-day?"
"No."
"Well, if he calls to-morrow, say that I am indisposed."
Martha evinced her satisfaction visibly.  The frown returned between
Elsa's eyes and remained there until she went down-stairs to join the
consul-general and his wife.  She found some very agreeable men and
women, and some of her natural gaiety returned.  At a far table on the
veranda she saw Craig and Mallow in earnest conversation.
She nodded pleasantly to the colonel as the head boy came to announce
that dinner was served.  Anglo-Indian society had so many twists and
ramifications that the situation was not exactly new to the old
soldier.  True, none had confronted him identical to this.  But he had
not disciplined men all these years without acquiring abundant
self-control.  The little veins in his nose turned purple, as Elsa
prophesied they would, but there was no other indication of how
distasteful the moment was to him.  He would surely warn the
consul-general, who doubtless was innocent enough.
They sat down.  The colonel blinked.  "Fine passage we had coming down."
"Was it?" returned Elsa innocently.
The colonel reached for an olive and bit into it savagely.  He was no
fool.  She had him at the end of a blind-alley, and there he must wait
until she was ready to let him go.  She could harry him or pretend to
ignore him, as suited her fancy.  He was caught.  Women, all women,
possessed at least one attribute of the cat.  It was digging in the
claw, hanging by it, and boredly looking about the world to see what
was going on.  At that moment the colonel recognized the sting of the
claw.
Elsa turned to her right and engaged the French consul discursively:
the vandalism in the gardens at Versailles, the glut of vehicles in the
Bois at Paris, the disappearing of the old landmarks, the old Hotel de
Sevigne, now the most interesting musée in France.  Indeed, Elsa
gradually became the center of interest; she drew them intentionally.
She brought a touch of home to the Frenchman, to the German, to the
Italian, to the Spaniard; and the British official, in whose hands the
civil business of the Straits Settlements rested, was charmed to learn
that Elsa had spent various week-ends at the home of his sister in
Surrey.
And when she admitted that she was the daughter of General Chetwood,
the man to whom the Indian government had cause to be grateful, upon
more than one occasion, for the solidity of his structures, the colonel
realized definitely the seriousness of his crucifixion.  He sat stiffer
and stiffer in his chair, and the veins in his nose grew deeper and
deeper in hue.  He saw clearly that he would never understand American
women.  He had committed an outrageous blunder.  He, instead of
dominating, had been dominated by three faultfinding old women; and,
without being aware of the fact, had looked at things from their point
of view.  A most inconceivable blunder.  He would not allow that he was
being swayed less by the admission of his unpardonable rudeness on
board than by the immediate knowledge that Elsa was known to the
British official's sister, a titled lady who stood exceedingly high at
court.
"Miss Chetwood," he said, lowering his voice for her ears only.
Elsa turned, but with the expression that signified that her attention
was engaged elsewhere.
"Yes?"
"I am an old man.  I am sixty-two; and most of these sixty-two I have
lived roughly; but I am not too old to realize that I have made a fool
of myself."
Interest began to fill Elsa's eyes.
"It has been said," he went on, keeping the key, "that I am a man of
courage, but I find that I need a good deal of that just now.  I have
been rude to you, and without warrant, and I offer you my humble
apologies."  He fumbled with his cravat as if it had suddenly
tightened.  "Will you accept?"
"Instantly."  Elsa understood the quality of courage that had stirred
the colonel.
"Thanks."
But ruthlessly: "I should, however, like your point of view in regard
to what you consider my conduct."
"Is it necessary?"
"I believe it would be better for my understanding if you made a full
confession."  She did not mean to be relentless, but her curiosity was
too strong not to press her advantage.
"Well, then, over here as elsewhere in the world there are standards by
which we judge persons who come under our notice."
"Agreed.  Individuality is not generally understandable."
"By the mediocre, you might have added.  That's the difficulty with
individuality; it refuses to be harnessed by mediocrity, and mediocrity
holds the whip-hand, always.  I represent the mediocre."
"Oh, never!" said Elsa animatedly.  "Mediocrity is always without
courage."
"You are wrong.  It has the courage of its convictions."
"Rather is it not stubbornness, wilful refusal to recognize things as
they are?"
He countered the question with another.  "Supposing we were all
individuals, in the sense you mean?  Supposing each of us did exactly
as he pleased?  Can you honestly imagine a more confusing place than
this world would be?  The Manchurian pony is a wild little beast, an
individual if ever there was one; but man tames him and puts to use his
energies.  And so it is with human individuality.  We of the mediocre
tame it and harness and make it useful to the general welfare of
humanity.  And when we encounter the untamable, in order to safeguard
ourselves, we must turn it back into the wilderness, an outlaw.
Indeed, I might call individuality an element, like fire and water and
air."
"But who conquer fire and water and air?" Elsa demanded, believing she
had him pocketed.
"Mediocrity, through the individual of this or that being.  Humanity in
the bulk is mediocre.  And odd as it seems, individuality (which is
another word for genius) believes it leads mediocrity.  But it can not
be made to understand that mediocrity ordains the leadership."
"Then you contend that in the hands of the stupid lies the balance of
power?"
"Let us not say stupid, rather the unimaginative, the practical and the
plodding.  The stubbornest person in the world is one with an idea."
"Do you honestly insist that you are mediocre?"
"No," thoughtfully.  "I am one of those stubborn men with ideas.  I
merely insist that I prefer to accept the tenets of mediocrity for my
own peace and the peace of others."
Elsa forgot those about her, forgot her intended humiliation of the man
at her side.  He denied that he was an individual, but he was one, as
interesting a one as she had met in a very long time.  She, too, had
made a blunder.  Quick to form opinions, swift to judge, she stood
guilty with the common lot, who permit impressions instead of evidence
to sway them.  Here was a man.
"We have gone far afield," she said, a tacit admission that she could
not refute his dissertations.  This knowledge, however, was not irksome.
"Rather have we not come to the bars?  Shall we let them down?"
"Proceed."
"In the civil and military life on this side of the world there are
many situations which we perforce must tolerate.  But these, mind you,
are settled conditions.  It is upon new ones which arise that we pass
judgment.  I knew nothing about you, nothing whatever.  So I judged you
according to the rules."
Elsa leaned upon her elbows, and she smiled a little as she noted that
the purple had gone from his nose and that it had resumed its
accustomed rubicundity.
"I go on.  A woman who travels alone, who does not present letters of
introduction, who . . ."
"Who attends strictly to her own affairs.  Go on."
"Who is young and beautiful."
"A sop!  Thanks!"
Imperturbably he continued: "Who seeks the acquaintance of men who do
not belong, as you Americans say."
"Not men; one man," she corrected.
"A trifling difference.  Well, it arouses a disagreeable word,
suspicion.  For look, there have been examples.  It isn't as if yours
were an isolated case.  There have been examples, and these we apply to
such affairs as come under our notice."
"And it doesn't matter that you may be totally wrong?"
His prompt answer astonished her.  "No, it does not matter in the
least.  Simmered down, it may be explained in a word, appearances.  And
I must say, to the normal mind . . ."
"The mediocre mind."
"To the normal and mediocre mind, appearances were against you.
Observe, please, that I did not know I was wrong, that you were a
remarkable young woman.  My deductions were made from what I saw as an
outsider.  On the Irrawaddy you made the acquaintance of a man who came
out here a fugitive from justice.  After you made his acquaintance, you
sought none other, in fact, repelled any advances.  This alone decided
me."
"Then you were decided?"  To say that this blunt exposition was not
bitter to her taste, that it did not act like acid upon her pride,
would not be true.  She was hurt, but she did not let the hurt befog
her sense of justice.  From his point of view the colonel was in no
fault.  "Let me tell you how very wrong you were indeed."
"Doubtless," he hastily interposed, "you enveloped the man in a cloud
of romance."
"On the contrary, I spoke to him and sought his companionship because
he was nothing more nor less than a ghost."
"Ah!  Is it possible that you knew him in former times?"
"No.  But he was so like the man at home; so identical in features and
build to the man I expected to go home to marry. . . ."
"My dear young lady, you are right.  Mediocrity is without imagination,
stupid, and makes the world a dull place indeed.  Like the man you
expect to marry!  What woman in your place would have acted otherwise?
And I have made my statements as bald and brutal as an examining
magistrate!  Instead of one apology I offer a thousand."
"I accept each and all of them.  More, I believe that you and I could
get on capitally.  I can very well imagine the soldier you used to be.
I am going to ask you what you know about Mr. Warrington."
"This, that he is not a fit companion for a young woman like yourself;
that a detractable rumor follows hard upon his heels wherever he goes.
I learned something about him in Rangoon.  He is known to the riff-raff
as Parrot & Co., and I don't know what else.  All of us on shipboard
learned his previous history."
"Ah!"  She was quite certain of the historian.  "And not from
respectable quarters, either."
"If I had been elderly and without physical attractions?" Elsa inquired
sarcastically.
"We are dealing with human nature, mediocrity, and not with
speculation.  It is in the very nature of things to distrust that which
we do not understand.  You say, old and without physical attractions.
Beauty is of all things most drawing.  We crowd about it, we crown it,
we flatter it.  The old and unattractive we pass by.  If I had not seen
you here to-night, heard you talk, saw in a kind of rebellious
enchantment over your knowledge of the world and your distinguished
acquaintance, I should have gone to my grave believing that my
suspicions were correct.  I dare say that I shall make the same mistake
again."
"But do not judge so hastily."
"That I promise."
"Did you learn among other things what Mr. Warrington had done?"
"Yes.  A sordid affair.  Ordinary peculations that were wasted over
gaming-tables."
Warrington had told her the truth.  At least, the story told by others
coincided with his own.  But what was it that kept doubt in her mind?
Why should she not be ready to believe what others believed, what the
man himself had confessed?  What was it to her that he looked like
Arthur, that he was guilty or innocent?
"And his name?"  She wondered if the colonel knew that also.
"Warrington is assumed.  His real name is Paul Ellison."
"Paul Ellison."  She repeated it slowly.  Her voice did not seem her
own.  The table, the lights, the faces, all receded and became a blur.
XV
A BIT OF A LARK
Mallow gave Craig one of his favorite cigars.  The gambler turned it
over and inspected the carnelian label, realizing that this was
expected of him.  Mallow smiled complacently.  They might smoke as good
as that at the government-house, but he rather doubted it.  Trust a
Britisher to know a good pipe-charge; but his selection of cigars was
seldom to be depended upon.
"Don't see many of these out here," was Craig's comment, and he tucked
away the cigar in a vest pocket.
"They cost me forty-three cents apiece, without duty."  The vulgarian's
pleasure lies not in the article itself so much as in the price paid
for it.  On the plantation Mallow smoked Burma cheroots because he
really preferred them.  There, he drank rye whisky, consorted with his
employees, gambled with them and was not above cheating when he had
them drunk enough.  Away from home, however, he was the man of money;
he bought vintage wines when he could, wore silks, jingled the
sovereigns whenever he thought some one might listen, bullied the
servants, all with the childish belief that he was following the
footsteps of aristocracy, hoodwinking no one, not even his kind.  "I'm
worth a quarter of a million," he went on.  "Luck and plugging did it.
One of these fine days I'm going to sell out and take a whack at that
gay Paris.  There's the place to spend your pile.  You can't get your
money's worth any place else."
Paris.  Craig's thought flew back to the prosperous days when he was
plying his trade between New York and Cherbourg, on the Atlantic
liners, the annual fortnight in Paris and the Grand-Prix.  He had had
his diamonds, then, and his wallet of yellow-backs; and when he had
called for vintage wines and choice Havanas it had been for genuine
love of them.  In his heart he despised Mallow.  He knew himself to be
a rogue, but Mallow without money would have been a bold predatory
scoundrel.  Craig knew also that he himself was at soul too cowardly to
be more than despicably bad.  He envied Mallow's absolute fearlessness,
his frank brutality, his strength upon which dissipation had as yet
left no mark; and Mallow was easily forty-five.  Paris.  He might never
see that city again.  He had just enough to carry him to Hongkong and
keep him on his feet until the races.  He sent a bitter glance toward
the sea where the moonlight gave an ashen hue to the forest of rigging.
The beauty of the scene did not enter his eye.  His mind was recalling
the luxurious smoke-rooms.
"When you go to Paris, I'd like to go along."
"You've never let on why they sent you hiking out here," Mallow
suggested.
"One of my habits is keeping my mouth shut."
"Regarding your own affairs, yes.  But you're willing enough to talk
when it comes to giving away the other chap."
"You can play that hand as well as I can."  Craig scowled toward the
dining-room doors.
"Ha!  There they come," said Mallow, as a group of men and women issued
out into the cafe-veranda.  "By gad! she is a beauty, and no mistake.
And will you look at our friend, the colonel, toddling behind her?"
"You're welcome."
"You're a fine lady-killer."  Mallow tore the band from a fresh cigar
and struck a match.
"I know when I've got enough.  If you could get a good look at her when
she's angry, you'd change your tune."
Mallow sighed audibly.  "Most women are tame, and that's why I've
fought shy of the yoke.  Yonder's the sort for me.  The man who marries
her will have his work cut out.  It'll take a year or two to find out
who's boss; and if she wins, lord help the man!"
Craig eyed the group which was now seated.  Two Chinamen were serving
coffee and cordials.  Mallow was right; beautiful was the word.  A
vague regret came to him, as it comes to all men outside the pale, that
such a woman could never be his.  He poured out for himself a stiff peg
and drank it with very little soda.  Craig always fled, as it were,
from introspection.
"Haven't seen the crow anywhere, have you?"
"No, nor want to.  Leave him alone."
"Afraid of him, eh?"
"I'm truthful enough to say that I'm damned afraid of him.  Don't
mistake me.  I'd like to see him flat, beaten, down and out for good.
I'd like to see him lose that windfall, every cent of it.  But I don't
want to get in his way just now."
"Rot!  Don't you worry; no beach-comber like that can stand up long in
front of me.  He threatened on board that he was going to collect that
fifty pounds.  He hasn't been very spry about it."
"I should like to be with you when you meet."
Mallow grinned.  "Not above seeing a pal get walloped, eh?  Well, you
get a ring-side ticket.  It'll be worth it."
"I don't want to see you get licked," denied Craig irritably.  "All I
ask is that you shelve some of your cock-sureness.  I'm not so
dead-broke that I must swallow all of it.  I've warned you that he is a
strong man.  He used to be one of the best college athletes in America."
"College!" exploded Mallow.  "What the devil does a college athlete
know about a dock-fight?"
"Ever see a game of football?"
"No."
"Well, take it from me that it's the roughest game going.  It's a game
where you put your boot in a man's face when he's not looking.  Mallow,
they kill each other in that game.  And Ellison was one of the best,
fifteen years ago.  He used to wade through a ton of solid, scrapping,
plunging flesh.  And nine times out of ten he used to get through.  I
want you to beat him up, and it's because I do that I'm warning you not
to underestimate him.  On shipboard he handled me as you would a bag of
salt; damn him!  He's a surprise to me.  He looks as if he had lived
clean out here.  There's no booze-sign hanging out on him, like there
is on you and me."
"Booze never hurt me any."
"You're galvanized inside," said Craig, staring again at Elsa.  He
wished he knew how to hurt her, too.  But he might as well throw stones
at the stars.
"How would you like to put one over on this chap Ellison?"
"In what way?"
Mallow smoked for a moment, then touched his breast pocket
significantly.
"Not for mine," returned Craig.  "Cards are my long suit.  I'm no
second-story man, not yet."
"I know.  But supposing you could get it without risk?"
"In the first place, the bulk of his cash is tied up in letters of
credit."
"Ah, you know that?"
"What good would it do to pinch those?  In Europe there would be some
chance, but not here where boats are two weeks apart.  A cable to
Rangoon would shut off all drawing.  He could have others made out.  In
cash he may have a few hundreds."
"All gamblers are more or less yellow," sneered Mallow.  "The streak in
you is pretty wide.  I tell you, you needn't risk your skin.  Are you
game to put one over that will cost him a lot of worry and trouble?"
"So long as I can stand outside the ropes and look on."
"He has a thousand pounds in his belt.  No matter how I found out.
How'd you like to put your hand on it if you were sure it would not
burn your fingers?"
"I'd like to, all right.  But it's got to be mighty certain.  And the
belt must be handed to me by some one else.  I've half a wonder if
you're not aiming to get rid of me," with an evil glance at his tempter.
"If I wanted to get rid of you, this'd be the way," said Mallow,
opening and shutting his powerful hands.  "I'm just hungering for a bit
of a lark.  Come on.  A thousand pounds for taking a little rickshaw
ride.  Ever hear of Wong's?  Opium, pearls, oils and shark-fins?"
"No."
"Not many do.  I know Singapore like the lines on my hands.  Wong is
the shrewdest, most lawless Chinaman this side of Canton and Macao.
Pipes, pearls and shark-fins.  Did you know that the bay out there is
so full of sharks that they have to stand on their tails for lack of
space?  Big money.  Wong's the man to go to.  Want a schooner rigged
out for illicit shell-hunting?  Want a man shanghaied?  Want him
written down missing?  Go to Wong."
"See here, Mallow; I don't mind his being beaten up; but what you say
doesn't sound good."
"You fool, I don't want him out of the way.  Why should I?  But there's
that thousand for you and worry for him.  All aboard!"
"You don't love Parrot & Co. any more than I do."
"No.  I'd sleep better o' nights if I knew he was broken for keeps.
Too much red-tape to put the United States after him.  How'd you rig
him?"
"Faro and roulette.  They never tumble.  I didn't have anything against
him until he ran into me at Rangoon.  But he's stepped in too many
times since.  Is this straight?"
"About lifting his belt?  Easy as falling off a log.  Leave it to me.
His room is on the first gallery, facing southwest.  You can chalk it
up as revenge.  I'll take it on as a bit of good sport.  Wong will fix
us out.  Now look alive.  It's after nine, and I'd like a little fun
first."
The two left the cafe-veranda and engaged a pair of rickshaws.  As they
jogged down the road, Warrington stepped out from behind the palms and
moodily watched them until the night swallowed them up.  He had not
overheard their interesting conversation, nor had he known they were
about until they came down the steps together.  He ached to follow
them.  He was in a fine mood for blows.  That there were two of them
did not trouble him.  Of one thing he was assured: somewhere in the dim
past an ancestor of his had died in a Berserk rage.
He had been watching Elsa.  It disturbed but did not mystify him to see
her talking to the colonel.  Table-chance had brought them together,
and perhaps to a better understanding.  How pale she was!  From time to
time he caught the flash of her eyes as she turned to this or that
guest.  Once she smiled, but the smile did not lighten up her face.  He
was very wretched and miserable.  She had taken him at his word, and he
should have been glad.  He had seen her but once again on board, but
she had looked away.  It was best so.  Yet, it was as if fate had
reached down into his heart and snapped the strings which made life
tuneful.
And to-morrow!  What would to-morrow bring?  Would they refuse?  Would
they demand the full penalty?  Eight thousand with interest was a small
sum to such a corporation.  He had often wondered if they had searched
for him.  Ten years.  In the midst of these cogitations he saw the
group at the table rise and break up.  Elsa entered the hotel.
Warrington turned away and walked aimlessly toward town.  For hours he
wandered about, seeing nothing, hearing nothing; and it was long past
midnight when he sought his room, restless and weary but wide awake.
He called for a stiff peg, drank it, and tumbled into bed.  He was
whirled away into broken dreams.  Now he was running down the gridiron,
with the old thrill in his blood.  With that sudden inconceivable twist
of dreams, he saw the black pit of the tramp-steamer and felt the
hell-heat in his face.  Again, he was in the Andes, toiling with his
girders over unspeakable chasms.  A shifting glance at the old
billiard-room in the club, the letter, and his subsequent wild night of
intoxication, the one time in his life when he had drunk hard and long.
Back to the Indian deserts and jungles.  And he heard the shriek of
parrots.
The shriek of parrots.  He sat up.  Even in his dream he recognized
that cry.  Night or day.  Rajah always shrieked when some one entered
the room.  Warrington silently slid out of bed and dashed to the door
which led to the gallery.  A body thudded against his.  He caught hold.
The body was nude to the waist and smelled evilly of sweat and
fish-oil.  Something whip-like struck him across the face.  It was a
queue.
Warrington struck out, but missed.  Instantly a pair of powerful arms
wound about him, bearing and bending him backward.  His right arm lay
parallel with the invader's chest.  He brought up the heel of his palm
viciously against the Chinaman's chin.  It was sufficient to break the
hold.  Then followed a struggle that always remained nightmarish to
Warrington.  Hither and thither across the room, miraculously avoiding
chairs, tables and bed, they surged.  He heard a ring of steel upon the
cement floor, and breathed easier to learn that the thief had dropped
his knife.  Warrington never thought to call out for help.  The old
fear of bringing people about him had become a habit.  Once, in the
whirl of things, his hand came into contact with a belt which hung
about the other's middle.  He caught at it and heaved.  It broke, and
the subsequent tinkling over the floor advised him of the fact that it
was his own gold.  The broken belt, however, brought the fight to an
abrupt end.  The oily body suddenly slipped away.  Warrington beheld a
shadow in the doorway; it loomed there a second against the sky-line,
and vanished.  He ran to the gallery railing, but it was too dark below
to discern anything.
He returned to his room, breathing hard, the obnoxious odor of sweat
and fish-oil in his nose.  He turned on the lights and without waiting
to investigate, went into the shower-room and stood under the tepid
deluge.  Even after a thorough rub-down the taint was in the air.  The
bird was muttering and turning somersaults.
"Thanks, Rajah, old sport!  He'd have got me but for you.  Let's see
the damage."
He picked up the belt.  The paper-money was intact, and what gold had
fallen he could easily find.  He then took up his vest . . . and
dropped it, stunned.  The letter of credit for half his fortune was
gone.  He sank back upon the bed and stared miserably at the fallen
garment.  Gone!  Fifty thousand dollars.  Some one who knew!  Presently
he stood up and tugged at his beard.  After all, why should he worry?
A cable to Rangoon would stop payments.  A new letter could be issued.
It would take time, but he had plenty of that.
Idly he reached for the broken cigar that lay at the foot of the bed.
He would have tossed it aside as one of his own had not the carnelian
band attracted his attention.  He hadn't smoked that quality of tobacco
in years.  He turned it over and over, and it grew more and more
familiar.  Mallow's!
XVI
WHO IS PAUL ELLISON?
For some time Warrington sat upon the edge of the bed and studied the
cigar, balanced it upon his palm, as if striving to weigh accurately
Mallow's part in a scrimmage like this.  The copra-grower assuredly
would be the last man to give a cigar to a Chinaman.  His gifts kept
his coolies hopping about in a triangle of cuffs and kicks and
pummelings.  He had doubtless given the cigar to another white man
likely enough, Craig, who, with reckless inebriate generosity, had in
turn presented it to the Oriental.  Besides, Mallow was rich.  What
stepping-stones he had used to acquire his initial capital were not
perfectly known; but Warrington had heard rumors of shady transactions
and piratical exploits in the pearl zone.  Mallow, rich, was Mallow
disposed of, at least logically; unless indeed it was a bit of
anticipatory reprisal.  That might possibly be.  A drunken Mallow was
capable of much, for all that his knowledge of letters of credit might
necessarily be primitive.
Pah!  The abominable odor of fish still clung.  He reached for his pipe
and lighted it, letting the smoke sink into his beard.
Yet, Mallow was no fool.  He would scarcely take such risk for so
unstable and chancely a thing as revenge of this order.  Craig?  He
hadn't the courage.  Strong and muscular as he was, he was the average
type of gambler, courageous only when armed with a pack of cards,
sitting opposite a fool and his money.  But, Craig and Mallow together.
. . .  He slipped off the label.  It was worth preserving.
With an unpleasant laugh he began to get into his clothes.  Why not?
The more he thought of it, the more he was positive that the two had
been behind this assault.  The belt would have meant a good deal to
Craig.  There were a thousand Chinese in Singapore who would cut a
man's throat for a Straits dollar.  Either Mallow or Craig had seen him
counting the money on shipboard.  It had been a pastime of his to throw
the belt on the bunk-blanket and play with the gold and notes; like a
child with its Christmas blocks.  He had spent hours gloating over the
yellow metal and crackly paper which meant a competence for the rest of
his years.  And Craig or Mallow had seen him.
He looked at his watch; quarter after two.  If they were not in their
rooms he would have good grounds for his suspicions.  He stole along
the gallery and down the stairs to the office, just in time to see the
two enter, much the worse for drink.  Mallow was boisterous, and Craig
was sullen.  The former began to argue with the night manager, who
politely shook his head.  Mallow grew insistent, but the night manager
refused to break the rules of the hotel.  Warrington inferred that
Mallow was demanding liquor, and his inference was correct.  He moved a
little closer, still hidden behind the potted palms.
"All right," cried Mallow.  "We'll go back to town for it."
"I've had enough," declared Craig sullenly.
"Yah!  A little sore, eh?  Well, I can't pour it down your throat."
"Let's cut out booze and play a little hand or two."
"Fine!"  Mallow slapped his thigh as he laughed.  "Nice bird I'd be for
you to pluck.  Think of something else.  You can hit me on the head
when I'm not looking and take my money that way.  What do you think I
am, anyhow?  The billiard-hall is open."
Craig shook his head.  When Mallow was argumentative it was no time to
play billiards.
"Bah!" snarled Mallow.  "Since you won't drink like a man nor play
billiards, I'm for bed.  And just as the fun was beginning!"
Craig nudged him warningly.  Mallow stalked away, and Craig, realizing
that the night was done, followed.
Warrington had seen and heard enough.  He was tolerably sure.  It might
have been out of pure deviltry, so far as Mallow was concerned; but
Craig had joined in hope of definite profits.  A fine pair of rogues!
Neither of them should be able to draw against the letter.  He would
block that game the first thing in the morning.  He would simply notify
the local banks and cable to Rangoon.
He eyed indecisively the stairs and then glanced toward the brilliant
night outside.  It would not be possible to sleep in that room again.
So he tiptoed out to the cafe-veranda and dropped into a comfortable
chair.  He would hunt them up some time during the day.  He would ask
Mallow for fifty pounds, and he sincerely hoped that Mallow would
refuse him.  For he was grimly resolved that Mallow should pay for
those half-truths, more damning than bald lies.  It was due to Mallow
that he was never more to see or speak to Elsa.  He emptied the ash
from his cutty which he stowed away.
The great heart ache and the greater disillusion would not have fallen
to his lot had Elsa been frank in Rangoon, had she but told him that
she was to sail on the same steamer.  He would have put over his
sailing.  He would have gone his way, still believing himself to be a
Bayard, a Galahad, or any other of those simple dreamers who put honor
and chivalry above and before all other things.
Elsa!  He covered his face with his hands and remained in that position
for a long while, so long indeed that the coolies, whose business it
was to scrub the tilings every morning at four, went about their work
quietly for fear of disturbing him.
Elsa had retired almost immediately after dinner.  She endeavored to
finish some initial-work on old embroideries, but the needle insisted
upon pausing and losing stitch after stitch.  She went to bed and tried
to concentrate her thoughts upon a story, but she could no more follow
a sentence to the end than she could fly.  Then she strove to sleep,
but that sweet healer came not to her wooing.  Nothing she did could
overcome the realization of the shock she had received.  It had left
her dull and bewildered.
The name echoed and reechoed through her mind: Paul Ellison.  It should
have been an illumination; instead, she had been thrust into utter
darkness.  Neither Arthur nor his mother had ever spoken of a brother,
and she had known them for nearly ten years.  Two men, who might be
twin-brothers, with the same name: it was maddening.  What could it
mean?  The beautiful white-haired mother, the handsome charming son,
who idolized each other; and this adventurer, this outcast, this
patient, brave and kindly outcast, with his funny parrakeet, what was
he to them and they to him?  It must be, it must be!  They were
brothers.  Nature, full of amazing freaks as she was, had not
perpetrated this one without calling upon a single strain of blood.
She lay back among her pillows, her eyes leveled at the few stars
beyond her door, opened to admit any cooling breeze.  Her head ached.
It was like the computations of astronomers; to a certain extent the
