yielded, rather surprising me by the suddenness 
of it; I suppose she concluded that van Tuiver 
was the man to handle me, and the quicker he 
got at it the better. 
It is a trying thing to deal with the rich and 
great. If you treat them as the rest of the world 
does, you are a tuft-hunter; if you treat them as 
the rest of the world pretends to, you are a 
hypocrite; whereas, if you deal with them truly, 
it is hard not to seem, even to yourself, a biunp- 
tious person. I remember trying to tell myself 
on the launch-trip that I was not in the least 
 
excited; and then, standing on the platfonn of 
the raiboad station, saying, "How can you ex- 
pect not to be excited, when even the railroad is 
excited?" 
"Will Mr. van Tuiver's train be on time?" 
I asked of the agent. 
" 'Specials' are not often delayed," he repHed; 
"at least not Mr, van Tuiver's." 
The engine and its two cars drew up, and the 
traveler stepped out upon the platform, followed 
by his secretary and his valet. I went forward 
to meet him. "Good morning, Mr. van Tuiver." 
I saw at once that he did not remember me. 
"Mrs. Abbott," I prompted. "I came to meet 
you." 
"Ah," he said. He had never got clear whether 
I was a sewing-woman, or a tutor, or what; and 
whenever he erred in such matters, it was on the 
side of caution. 
"Your wife is doing well," I said; "and the 
child as  well as could be expected." 
"Thank you," he replied. "Did no one else 
come?" 
"Mrs. Tuis was not able," I said, diplomatically, 
and we moved- toward the launch. 
 
 
He did not offer to help me into the vessel, 
but I, crude Western woman, did not miss the 
attention. We seated ourselves in the upholstered 
leather seats in the stem, and when the "luggage" 
had been stowed aboard, the little vessel swimg 
away from the pier. Then I said, "If you will 
pardon me, 'Mi. van Tuiver, I should like to talk 
with you privately." 
He looked at me for a moment, and then 
answered, abruptly: "Yes, madam." The secre- 
tary rose and went forward. 
The whir of the machinery and the strong 
breeze made by the boat's motion made it certain 
that no one could hear us; and so I began my 
attack. "!Mr. van Tuiver, I am a friend of yom* 
wife's. I came here to help her in this crisis; 
and I came today to meet you, because it was 
necessary for some one to talk to you frankly 
about the situation. You will understand, I 
presume, that ]Mrs. Tuis is not — not very well 
informed about the matters in question." 
His gaze was fixed intently upon me; but he 
said not a word. After waiting, I continued: 
"Perhaps you will wonder why your wife's 
physicians could not have handled the matter. 
The reason is, there is a woman's side to such 
questions, and often it is difficult for men to 
understand it. If Syh-ia knew the truth, she 
 
could speak for herself; so long as she does not 
know it, I shall have to take the liberty of speaking 
for her." 
Again there was a pause. He did nothing more 
than watch me, yet I could feel his affronted 
maleness rising up for battle. I waited, on pur- 
pose to compel him to speak. 
"May I ask," he inquired, at last, "what you 
mean by the 'truth' that you refer to?" 
"I mean," I said, "the cause of the infant's 
aflEliction." 
His composure was a thing to wonder at. He 
did not show by the flicker of an eye-lash any 
sign of uneasiness. 
"Let me explain one thing," I continued. 
"I owe it to Dr. Perrin to make clear that he had 
nothing whatever to do with my coming into 
possession of the secret. In fact, as he will no 
doubt tell you, I knew it before he did; it is 
possible that you owe it to me that the infant is 
not disfigured, as well as blind." 
I paused again. "If that be true," he said, 
with vmshaken formallty, "I am obliged to you." 
What a man! 
I continued: "My one desire and purpose is 
to protect my friend. So far, the secret has 
been kept from her. I consented to this, because 
her very life was at stake, it seemed to us all. 
But now she is well enough to know; and the 
question is, shall she know. I need hardly tell 
you that Dr. Perrin thinks she should not, and 
that he has been using his influence to persuade 
me to agree with him. So also has Mrs. Tuis " 
 
Then I saw the first trace of uncertainty in 
his eyes. "There was a critical time," I explained, 
"when Mrs. Tuis had to be told. You may 
be sure, however, that no hint of the truth will 
be given by her. I am the only person who is 
troubled with the problem of Sylvia's rights." 
I waited. "May I suggest, Mrs. — Mrs. Abbott 
— that the protection of Mrs. van Tuiver's rights 
can be safely left to her physicians and her 
husband?" 
"One would wish so, Mr. van Tuiver; but the 
medical books are full of evidence that women's 
rights frequently need other protection." 
I perceived that he was nearing the end of his 
patience now. "You make it difficult for me to 
talk to you," he said. "I am not accustomed 
to having my affairs taken out of my hands by 
strangers." 
"Mr. van Tuiver," I replied, "in this most 
critical matter it is necessary to speak without 
evasion. Before her marriage Sylvia made an 
attempt to safeguard herseK in this very matter, 
and she was not dealt with fairly." 
At last I had made a hole in the mask! His 
face was crimson as he replied, "Madam, your 
knowledge of my private affairs is most astonish- 
ing. May I inquire how you learned these 
things?" 
I did not reply at once, and he repeated the 
question. I perceived that this was to him the 
most important matter — his wife's lack of reserve! 
"The problem that concerns us here," I said, 
 
 
"is whether you are wilhng to repau- the error 
you then made. Will you go frankly to your 
wife and admit your responsibility " 
He broke in, angrily, "Madam, the assumption 
you are making is one I see no reason for per- 
mitting." 
"Mr. van Tuiver," said I, "I had hoped that 
you would not take that line of argmnent. I 
perceive that I have been naive." 
"Really, madam!" he replied, with cruel 
intent. "You have not impressed me so!" 
I continued, unshaken: "In this conversation 
it will be necessary to assume that you are respon- 
sible for the presence of the disease." 
"In that case," he replied, haughtily, "I can 
have no further part in the conversation, Mid 
I will ask you to drop it at once." 
I might have taken him at his word and waited, 
confident that in the end he would have to come 
and ask for terms. But that would have seemed 
childish to me, with the grave matters we had to 
settle. After a minute or two, I said, quietly, 
"Mr. van Tuiver, you wish me to believe that 
previous to yoiu* marriage you had always lived 
a chaste life?" 
He was equal to the effort it cost to control 
himself. He sat examining me with his cold 
grey eyes. I suppose I must have been as new 
and monstrous a phenomenon to him as he was 
to me. 
At last, seeing that he would not reply, I said, 
coldly, "It will help us to get forward, if you will 
 
give up the idea that it is possible for you to put 
me off, or to escape this situation." 
"Madam," he cried, suddenly, "come to the 
point! What is it that you want? Money?" 
I had thought I was prepared for everything; 
but this was an aspect of his world which I could 
hardly have been expected to allow for. I stared 
at him, and then turned from the sight of him. 
"And to think that Sylvia is married to such a 
man!" I whispered, half to myself. 
"Mrs. Abbott," he exclaimed, "how can anyone 
understand what you are driving at?" 
But I forebore to answer him, and for a long 
time sat gazing over the water. What was the 
use of pleading with such a man? What was the 
use of pouring out one's soul to him? I would 
tell Sylvia the truth at once, and leave him to her! 
 
 
I HEASD him again, at last; he was talking to 
my back, his tone a trifle less aloof. "Mrs. 
Abbott, do you realize that I know nothing what- 
ever about you — your character, your purpose, 
the nature of your hold upon my wife? So what 
means have I of judgmg? You threaten me with 
something that seems to me entirely insane — 
and what can I make of it? If you wish me to 
imderstand you, tell me ia plain words what you 
want." 
I reflected that I was in the world, and must 
take it as I foimd it. "I have told you what I 
want," I said, "but I will tell you again, if it 
is necessary. I hoped to persuade you that it 
was your duty to go to your wife and tell her the 
truth." 
He took a few moments to make sure of his self- 
possession. "And would you explain what good 
you imagine that could do?" 
"Your wife," I said, "must be put in position 
to protect herself in future. There is no way 
of making sure in such a matter, except to tell 
her the truth. You love her — and you are a man 
who has never been accustomed to do without 
what he wants." 
"Great God, woman!" he cried. "Don't you 
suppose one blind child is enough?" 
It was the first htmian word that he had spoken. 
 
and I was gratef xil for it. "I have already covered 
that point," I said, in a low voice. "The medical 
books are full of painful evidence that several 
blind children are sometimes not enough. There 
can be no escaping the necessity — Sylvia must 
know. The only question is, who shall tell her? 
You must realize that in urging you to be the 
person, I am thinking of your good as well as hers. 
I will, of course, not mention that I have had 
anything to do with persuading you, and so it 
will seem to her that you have some realization 
of the wrong you have done her, some desire 
to atone for it, and to be honorable and fair in 
your futvu"e dealings with her. When she has 
once been made to realize that you are no more 
guilty than other men of your class — that you have 
done no worse than all of them " 
"You imagine she could be made to believe 
that?" he broke in, impatiently. 
"I will undertake to see that she believes it," 
I replied. 
"You seem to have great confidence in yom- 
ability to manage my wife!" 
"If you continue to resent my existence," 
I answered, gravely, "you will make it impossible 
for me to help you." 
"Pardon me," he said — but he did not say it 
cordially, 
I went on: "There is much that can be said in 
your behalf. I realize it is quite possible that you 
were not wholly to blame when you wrote to Bishop 
Chilton that you were fit to marry; I know that 
 
you may have believed it — that you might even 
have found physicians to tell you so. There is 
wide-spread ignorance on the subject of this 
disease. Men have the idea that the chronic 
forms of it cannot be conomunicated to women, 
and it is difficult to make them realize what 
modem investigations have proven. You can 
explain that to Sylvia, and I will back you up 
in it. You were in love with her, you wanted her. 
Go to her now, and admit to her honestly that you 
have wronged her. Beg her to forgive you, and 
to let you help make the best of the cruel situation 
that has arisen." 
So I went on, pom-mg out my soul. And when 
I had finished, he said, "Mrs. Abbott, I have 
listened patiently to your most remarkable prop- 
osition. My answer is that I must ask you to 
withdraw from this intimate matter, which con- 
cerns only my wife and myself." 
He was back where we started! Trying to 
sweep aside these grim and terrible reahties with 
the wave of a conventional hand! Was this the 
way he met Sylvia's arguments? I felt moved 
to tell him what I thought of him. 
"You are a proud man, Mr. van Tuiver — an 
obstinate man, I fear. It is hard for you to humble 
yourself to your wife — to admit a crime and beg 
forgiveness. Tell me — is that why you hesitate? 
Is it because you fear you will have to take second 
place in your family from now on — that you will 
no longer be able to dominate Sylvia? Are you 
afraid of putting into her hands a weapon of self- 
defence?" 
 
He made no response. 
"Very well," I said, at last. "Let me tell you, 
then — I will not help any man to hold such a 
position in a woman's life. Women have to bear 
half the burdens of marriage, they pay half, 
or more than haK, the penalties; and so it is 
necessary that they have a voice ia its affairs. 
Until they know the truth, they can never have 
a voice." 
Of course my little lecture on Feminism might 
as well have been delivered to a sphinx. "How 
stupid you are!" I cried. "Don't you know that 
some day Sylvia must find out the truth for 
herself?" 
This was before the days when newspapers and 
magazines began to discuss such matters frankly; 
but still there were hints to be picked up. I 
had a newspaper-item in my bag — the board of 
health in a certain city had issued a circular 
giving instructions for the prevention of blind- 
ness in newly-born infants, and discussing the 
causes thereof; and the United States Post-oflEice 
authorities had barred the circular from the 
mails. I said, " Suppose that item had come imder 
Sylvia's eyes; might it not have put her on the 
track? It was in her newspaper the day before 
yesterday; and it was only by accident that I 
got hold of it first. Do you suppose that can go 
on forever?" 
"Now that I am here," he replied, "I will be 
glad to relieve you of such responsibilities." 
Which naturally made me cross. I drew from 
 
my quiver an arrow that I thought would pene- 
trate his skin, "Mr. van Tuiver," I said, "a 
man in your position must always be an object of 
gossip and scandal. Supp>ose some enemy were 
to send your wife an anonymous letter? Or 
suppose there were some woman who thought 
that you had wronged her?" 
I stopped. He gave me one keen look — and 
then again the imjjenetrable mask! "My wife 
will have to do as other women in her position 
do — pay no attention to scandal-mongers of any 
sort." 
I paused, and then went on: "I believe in mar- 
riage. I consider it a sacred thing; I would do 
anything in my power to protect and preserve a 
marriage. But I hold that it must be an equal 
partnership. I would fight to make it that; and 
wherever I found that it could not be that, I 
would say it was not marriage, but slavery, and 
I would fight just as hard to break it. Can you 
not understand that attitude upon a woman's 
part?" 
He gave no sign that he could understand. 
But still I would not give up my battle. "Mr. 
van Tuiver," I pleaded, "I am a much older 
person than you. I have seen a great deal of 
life — I have seen suffering even worse than yours. 
And I am trying most earnestly to help you. 
Can you not bring yourself to talk to me frankly? 
Perhaps you have never talked with a woman 
about sudi matters — I mean, with a good woijaan. 
But I assure you that other men have found it 
 
possible, and never regretted the confidence they 
placed in me." 
I went on to tell him about my own sons, and 
what I had done for them; I told him of a score of 
other boys in their class who had come to me, 
making me a sort of mother-confessor. I do not 
think that I was entirely deceived by my own 
eloquence — there was, I am sure, a minute or 
two when he actually wavered. But then the 
habits of a precocious life-time reasserted them- 
selves, and he set his hps and told himself that he 
was Douglas van Tuiver. Such things might 
happen in raw Western colleges, but they were not 
according to the Harvard manner, nor the tradi- 
tion of life in Fifth-Avenue clubs. 
He could not be a boy! He had never had any 
boyhood, any childhood — he had been a state 
personage ever since he had known that he was 
anything. I found myself thinking suddenly of 
the thin-Hpped old family lawyer, who had had 
much to do with shaping his character, and whom 
Sylvia described to me, sitting at her dinner- 
table and bewailing the folly of people who 
"admitted things". That was what made trouble 
for family lawyers — not what people did, but 
what they admitted. How easy it was to ignore 
impertinent questions! And how few people had 
the wit to do it! — It seemed as if the shade of 
the thin-hpped old family lawyer were standing 
by Douglas van Tuiver's side. 
In a last desperate effort, I cried, "Even sup- 
pose that I grant your request, even suppose I 
 
agree not to tell Sylvia the truth — still the day- 
will come when you will hear from her the point- 
blank question: 'Is my child blind because of 
this disease?' And what will you answer?" 
He said, in his cold, measured tones, "I will 
answer that there are a thousand ways in which 
the disease can be innocently acquired." 
For a long time there was silence between us. 
At last he spoke again, and his voice was as emo- 
tionless as if we had just met: "Do I understand 
you, madam, that if I reject your advice and 
refuse to tell my wife what you call the truth, 
it is your intention to tell her yourself?" 
"You understand me correctly," I replied. 
"And may I ask when you intend to carry out 
this threat?" 
"I win wait," I said, "I will give you every 
chance to think it over — to consult with the 
doctors, in case you wish to. I will not take the 
step without giving you fair notice." 
"For that I am obliged to you," he said, with 
a touch of irony; and that was our last word. 
 
 
Our island was visible in the distance, and I 
was impatient for the time when I should be 
free from this man's presence. But as we drew 
nearer, I noticed a boat coming out; it proved 
to be one of the smaller launches, heading directly 
for us. Neither van Tuiver nor I spoke, but 
both of us watched it, and he must have been 
wondering, as I was, what its purpose could be. 
When it was near enough, I made out that its 
passengers were Dr. Perrin and Dr. Gibson. 
We slowed up, and the other boat did the 
same, and they lay within a few feet of each 
other. Dr. Perrin greeted van Tuiver, and after 
introducing the other man, he said, "We came 
out to have a talk with you. Would you be so 
good as to step into this boat?" 
"Certainly," was the reply. The two launches 
were drawn side by side, and the transfer made; 
the man who was nmniag the smaller laimch 
stepped into ours — evidently having been in- 
structed in advance. 
"You will excuse us, please?" said the little 
doctor to me. The man who had stepped into 
our launch spoke to the captain of it, and the 
power was then put on, and we moved away a 
sufficient distance to be out of hearing. I thought 
this a strange procedure; but I conjectured that 
the doctors had become nervous as to what I 
 
might have told van Tuiver. So I dismissed 
the matter from my mind, and spent my time 
reviewing the exciting adventure I had just 
passed through. 
How much impression had I made? It was 
hard for me to judge such a man. He would 
pretend to be less concerned than he actually 
was. But surely he must see that he was in 
my power, and would have to give way in the 
end! 
There came a hail from the little vessel, and 
we moved alongside again. "Would you kindly 
step in here with us, Mrs. Abbott?" said Dr. 
Perrin; and when I had done so, he ordered the 
boatman to move away once more. Van Tuiver 
said not a word; but I noted a strained look 
upon his face, and I thought the others seemed 
agitated also. 
As soon as the other vessel was out of hear- 
ing, Dr. Perrin tiuTied to me, and said, "Mrs. 
Abbott, we came out to see Mr. van Tuiver, 
to warn him of a distressing accident which has 
just happened. Mrs. van Tuiver was asleep in 
her room, and Miss Lyman and another of the 
nurses were in the next room. They indiscreetly 
made some remarks on the subject which we 
have all been discussing — how much a wife should 
be told about these matters; and suddenly they 
discovered Mrs. van Tuiver standing in the door- 
way of the room." 
My gaze had turned to Douglas van Tuiver. 
"So she knows?" I cried. 
 
"We don't think that she knows; but she 
has a suspicion, and is trying to find out. She 
asked to see you." 
"Ah, yes!" I said. 
"She declared that she wished to see you as 
soon as you returned — that she would not see 
anyone else, not even Mr. van Tuiver. You 
will understand that this portends trouble for 
all of us. We judged it necessary to have a con- 
sultation about the matter." 
I bowed in assent. 
"Now, Mrs. Abbott," began the little doctor, 
solemnly, "there is no longer a question of 
abstract ideas, but of an immediate emergency. 
We feel that we, as the physicians in charge of 
the case, have the right to take control of the 
matter. We do not see " 
"Dr. Perrin," I said, "let us come to the 
point. You want me to spin a new web of 
deception?" 
"We are of the opinion, Mrs. Abbott, that in 
such matters the physicians in chaise " 
"Excuse me," I said, quickly. "We have 
been over all this before, and we know that we 
disagree. Has Mr. van Tuiver told you of the 
proposition I have just made?" 
"You mean for him to go to his wife " 
"Yes." 
"He has told us of this, and has offered to 
do it. We are of the opinion that it would be 
a grave mistake." 
"It has been three weeks since the birth of 
 
the baby," I said. "Surely all danger of fever is 
past. I will grant you that if it were a ques- 
tion of telling her deliberately, it might be better 
to put it off for a while. I would have been 
willing to wait for months, but for the fact that 
I dreaded something like the present situation. 
Now that it has happened, surely it is best to 
use our opportunity — while all of us are here, 
and can persuade her to take the kindest atti- 
tude toward her husband." 
"Madam!" broke in Dr. Gibson. (He was 
having difficulty in controlling his excitement.) 
"You are asking us to overstep the bovmds of 
OUT professional duty. It is not for the phy- 
sician to decide upon the attitude a wife should 
take toward her husband." 
"Dr. Gibson," I replied, "that is what you 
propose to do, only you wish to conceal the fact. 
You would force Mrs. van Tuiver to accept your 
opinion of what a wife's duty is." 
Dr. Perrin took command once more. "Our 
patient has asked for you, and she looks to you 
for guidance. You must put aside your own 
convictions and think of her health. You are 
the only person who can cahn her; and surely 
it is your duty to do so !" 
"I know that I might go in and lie again to 
my friend; but she knows too much to be de- 
ceived for very long. You know what a mind 
she has — a lawyer's mind! How can I persuade 
her that the nurses — why, I do not even know 
what she heard the nurses say!" 
 
"We have that all written down for you," 
put in Dr. Perrin, quickly. 
"You have their recollection of it, no doubt — 
but suppose they have forgotten some of it? 
Sylvia has not forgotten, you may be sure — 
every word is burned with fire into her brain. She 
has put with this everything she ever heard on 
the subject — the experience of her friend Harriet 
Atkinson — all that I've told her in the past about 
such things " 
"Ah!" growled Dr. Gibson. "That's it! n 
you had not meddled in the beginning " 
"Now, now!" said the other, soothingly. "You 
asked me to relieve you of the embarrassment of 
this matter. I quite agree with Mrs. Abbott 
that there is too much ignorance about these 
things. But she must recognize, I am sure, 
that this is not the proper moment for enlighten- 
ing Mrs. van Tuiver." 
"I do not recognize it at all," I said. "If her 
husband will go to her and tell her humbly and 
truthfully " 
"You are talking madness!" cried the old man, 
breaking loose again. "She would be hysterical 
— she would regard him as something loathsome 
— some kind of criminal " 
"Of course she would be shocked," I said; 
"but she has the coolest head of anyone I know. 
I do not think of any man I would trust so 
fully to take a rational attitude in the end. We 
can explain to her what extenuating circum- 
stances there are, and she will have to recognize 
 
them. She will see that we are considering her 
rights " 
"Her rights?" The old man fairly snorted the 
words. 
"Now, now, Dr. Gibson!" interposed the other. 
"You asked me " 
"I know! I know! But as the older of the 
physicians in charge of this case " 
Dr. Perrin managed to frown him down, and 
went on trying to placate me. But through the 
argument I would hear the old man muttering 
in his collar, a kind of double bass pizzicato: 
"Suffragettes! Fanatics! Hysteria! Woman's 
Rights!" 
 
 
The breeze was feeble, and the sun was blaz- 
ing hot, but nevertheless I made myself listen 
patiently for a while. They had said it all to 
me, over and over again; but it seemed that Dr. 
Perrin could not be satisfied until it had been 
said in Douglas van Tuiver's presence. 
"Dr. Perrin," I exclaimed, "even supposing 
we make the attempt to deceive her, we have 
not one plausible statement to make " 
"You are mistaken, Mrs. Abbott," said he. 
"We have the perfectly well-known fact that 
this disease is often contracted in ways which 
involve no moral blame. And in this case I 
believe I am in position to state how the accident 
happened." 
"What do you mean?'' 
"I don't know whether you heard that just 
before Mrs. van Tuiver's confinement, I was 
called away to one of the other keys to attend 
a negro-woman. And since this calamity has 
befallen us, I have reahzed that I was possibly 
not as careful in sterilizing my instruments as 
I might have been. It is of course a dreadful 
thing for any physician to have to believe " 
He stopped, and there was a long silence. I 
gazed from one to another of the men. Two of 
them met my gaze; one did not. "He is going 
to let you say that?" I whispered, at last. 
 
 
"Honor and fairness compel me to say it, 
Mrs. Abbott. I believe " 
But I interrupted him. "Listen to me, Dr. 
Perrin. You are a chivalrous gentleman, and you 
think you are helping a man in desperate need. 
But I say that anyone who would permit you 
to tell such a tale is a contemptible coward!" 
"Madam," cried Dr. Gibson, furiously, "there 
is a limit even to a woman's rights!" 
A silence followed. At last I resumed, in a 
low voice: "You gentlemen have your code: you 
protect the husband — you protect him at all 
hazards. I could understand this, if he were 
innocent of the offence in question; I could 
imderstand it, if there were any possibillty of his 
being innocent. But how can you protect him, 
when you know that he is guilty?" 
"There can be no question of such knowledge!" 
cried the old doctor. 
"I have no idea," I said, "how much he has 
admitted to you; but let me remind you of one 
circumstance, which is known to Dr. Perrin — 
that I came to this place with the definite in- 
formation that symptoms of the disease were to 
be anticipated. Dr. Perrin knows that I told 
that to Dr. Overton in New York. Has he ia- 
formed you of it?" 
There was an awkward interval. I glanced at 
van Tuiver, and I saw that he was leaning for- 
ward, staring at me. I thought he was about 
to speak, when Dr. Gibson broke in, excitedly, 
"All this is beside the mark! We have a serious- 
 
emergency to face, and we are not getting any- 
where. As the older of the physicians in charge 
of this case " 
And he went on to give me a lecture on the 
subject of authority. He talked for five min- 
utes, ten minutes — I lost all track of the time. 
I had suddenly begun to picture how I would 
act and what I would say when I went into 
Sylvia's room. What a state must Sylvia be in, 
while we sat out here in the blazing midday sun, 
discussing her right to freedom and knowledge! 
 
 
'I HAVE always been positive," Dr. Gibson 
was saying, "but the present discussion has 
made me more positive than ever. As the older 
of the physicians in charge of this case, I say 
most emphatically that the patient shall not be 
told!" 
I could not stand him any longer. "I am 
going to tell the patient," I said. 
"You shall not tell her!" 
"But how win you prevent me?" 
"You shall not see her!" 
"But she is determined to see me!" 
"She will be told that you are not there." 
"And how long do you imagine that that will 
satisfy her?" 
There was a pause. They looked at van 
Tuiver, expecting him to speak. And then I heard 
once more his cold, deliberate voice. "We have 
done all we can. There can no longer be any 
question as to the course to be taken. Mrs. 
Abbott will not return to my home." 
"What?" I cried. I stared at him, aghast. 
"What do you mean?" 
"I mean what I say — that you will not be 
taken back to the island." 
"But where will I be taken?" 
"You will be taken to the mainland." 
I stared at the others. No one gave a sign. 
At last I exclaimed, "You would dare?" 
 
"You leave us no other alternative," replied 
the master. 
"You — you will practically kidnap me!" My 
voice must have been rather wild at that moment. 
"You left my home of your own free will. 
I think I need hardly poiat out to you that I 
am not compelled to invite you back to it." 
"And what will Sylvia — " I stopped, dismayed 
at the vista the words opened up. 
"My wife," said van Tuiver, "will ultimately 
choose between her husband and her most re- 
markable acquaintance." 
"And you, gentlemen?" I turned to the others. 
"You would give yom- sanction to this outrageous 
action?" 
"As the older of the physicians in charge of 
this case — " began Dr. Gibson. 
I timaed to van Tuiver again. "When your 
wife finds out what you have done to me — what 
will you answer?" 
"We will deal with that situation when we 
come to it." 
"Of course," I said, "you understand that 
sooner or later I shall get word to her!" 
He answered, "We shall assume from now on 
that you are a mad woman, and shall take our 
precautions accordingly." 
Again there was a silence. 
"The launch will return to the mainland," 
said van Tuiver, at last. "It will remain there 
until Mrs. Abbott sees fit to go ashore. May 
I ask if she has sufficient money in her purse 
to take her to New York?" 
 
I coiild not help laughing. The thing was so 
wild — and yet I could see that from their point 
of view it was the only thing to do. "Mrs. 
Abbott is not certain that she is going back to 
New York," I replied. "If she does go, it will 
not be with Mr. van Tuiver's money." 
"One thing more," said Dr. Perrin. It was 
the first time he had spoken since van Tuiver's in- 
credible announcement. "I trust, Mrs. Abbott, 
that this imfortimate situation may at all costs 
be concealed from servants, and from the world 
in general." 
From which I reahzed how badly I had them 
frightened. They actually saw me making phys- 
ical resistance! 
"Dr. Perrin," I replied, "I am acting in this 
matter for my friend. I will add this: that I 
beheve that you are letting yourself be over- 
borne, and that you will regret it some day." 
He made no answer. Douglas van Tuiver put 
an end to the discussion by rising and signaling 
the other launch. When it had come alongside, 
he said to the captain, "Mrs. Abbott is going 
back to the railroad. You will take her at 
once." 
Then he waited; I was mallcious enough to 
give him an anxious moment before I rose. Dr. 
Perrin offered me his hand; and Dr. Gibson, 
said, with a smile, "Good-bye, Mrs. Abbott. 
I'm sorry you can't stay with us any longer." 
I think it was something to my credit that I 
was able to play out the game before the boat- 
 
men. "I am sorry, too," I countered. "I am 
hoping I shall be able to return." 
And then came the real ordeal. "Good-bye, 
Mrs. Abbott," said Douglas van Tuiver, with 
his stateliest bow; and I managed to answer 
him! 
As I took my seat, he beckoned his secretary. 
There was a whispered consultation for a minute 
or two, and then the master retm-ned to the 
smaller lamich with the doctors. He gave the 
word, and the two vessels set out — one to the 
key, and the other to the railroad. The secre- 
tary went in the one with me! 
 
 
And here ends a certain stage of my story. 
I have described Sylvia as I met her and judged 
her; and if there be any reader who has been 
irked by this method, who thinks of me as a 
crude and pushing person, disposed to meddle 
in the affairs of others, here is where that reader 
will have his satisfaction and revenge. For if 
ever a troublesome puppet was jerked suddenly 
off the stage — if ever a long-winded orator was 
effectively snuffed out — I was that puppet and 
that orator. I stop and think — shall I describe 
how I paced up and down the pier, respectfully 
but emphatically watched by the secretary? 
And all the melodramatic plots I conceived, the 
muffled oars and the midnight visits to my 
Sylvia? My sense of humor forbids it. For 
a while now I shall take the hint and stay in the 
backgroimd of this story. I shall tell the expe- 
riences of Sylvia as Sylvia herself told them to 
me long afterwards; saying no more about my 
own fate — save that I swallowed my humiliation 
and took the next train to New York, a far 
sadder and wiser social reformer! 
SYLVIA'S MARRIAGE 
BOOK III 
Sylvia as Rebel 
 
Long afterwards Sylvia told me about what 
happened between her husband and herself; how 
desperately she tried to avoid discussing the issue 
with him — out of her very sense of fairness to 
him. But he came to her room, in spite of her 
protest, and by his implacable persistence he 
made her hear what he had to say. When he had 
made up his mind to a certain course of action, 
he was no more to be resisted than a glacier. 
"Sylvia," he said, "I know that you are upset 
by what has happened. I make every allowance 
for your condition; but there are some statements 
that I must be permitted to make, and there are 
simply no two ways about it — you must get your- 
self together and hear me." 
"Let me see Mary Abbott!" she insisted, again 
and again. "It may not be what you want — but 
I demand to see her." 
So at last he said, "You cannot see Mrs. 
Abbott. She has gone back to New York." 
And then, at her look of consternation: "That is 
one of the things I have to talk to you about." 
"Why has she gone back?" cried Sylvia. 
"Because I was unwilling to have her here." 
"You mean you sent her away?" 
"I mean that she imderstood she was no longer 
welcome." 
 
Sylvia drew a quick breath and turned away to 
the window. 
He took advantage of the opportunity to come 
near, and draw up a chair for her. "Will you 
not pleased to be seated," he said. And at last 
she turned, rigidly, and seated herself. 
"The time has come," he declared, "when we 
have to settle this question of Mrs. Abbott, and 
her influence upon your life. I have argued with 
you about such matters, but now what has hap- 
pened makes further discussion impossible. You 
were brought up among people of refinement, and 
it has been incredible to me that you should be 
willing to admit to your home such a woman as 
this — not merely of the commonest birth, but 
without a trace of the refinement to which you 
have been accustomed. Now you see the conse- 
quences of yoiu" having brought such a person 
into our life!" 
He paused. She made no sound, and her gaze 
was riveted upon the window-curtain. 
"She happens to be here," he went on, "at a 
time when a dreadful calamity befalls us — when 
we are in need of the utmost sympathy and con- 
sideration. Here is an obscure and terrible 
affliction, which has baffled the best physicians in 
the country; but this ignorant farmer's wife con- 
siders that she knows all about it. She proceeds 
to discuss it with every one — sending your poor 
aimt almost into hysterics, setting the nurses to 
gossiping — God knows what else she has done, or 
what she will do, before she gets through. I 
 
don't pretend to know her ultimate purpose — 
blackmail, possibly " 
"Oh, how can you!" she broke out, invol- 
untarily. "How can you say such a thing about 
a friend of mine?" 
"I might answer with another question — how 
can you have such a friend? A woman who has 
cast off every restraint, every consideration of 
decency, — and yet is able to persuade a daughter 
of the Castlemans to make her an intimate! 
Possibly she is an honest fanatic. Dr. Perrin tells 
me she was the wife of a brutal farmer, who 
mistreated her. No doubt that has embittered 
her against men, and accounts for her mania. 
You see that her mind leaped at once to the most 
obscene and hideous explanation of this misfor- 
tune of ours — an explanation which pleased her 
because it blackened the honor of a man." 
He stopped again. Sylvia's eyes had moved 
back to the window-curtain. 
"I am not going to insult your ears," he said, 
"with discussions of her ideas. The proper per- 
son to settle such matters is a physician, and if 
you wish Dr. Perrin to do so, he will tell you 
what he knows about the case. But I wish you 
to realize somehow what this thing has meant to 
me. I have managed to control myself — " He 
saw her shut her hps more tightly. "The doctors 
tell me that I must not excite you. But picture 
-the situation. I come to my home, bowed 
down with grief for you and for my child. And 
this mad woman thrusts herself forward, shoves 
 
aside your aunt and yoitr physicians, and comes 
in the launch to meet me at the station. And 
then she accuses me of being criminally guilty of 
the blindness of my child — of having wiKully 
deceived my wife! Think of it — that is my wel- 
come to my home!" 
