ironical gratitude in making Colonel Hare his heir--as if such things
could be!  And then her own journey to Allaha; the nightmarish durbar,
during which she had been crowned; the escape from the ordeals with
John Bruce; the terrors of the temple of the sun; the flight from there
. . .  John Bruce!  She could still see the fire in his eyes; she could
still feel the touch of his gentle yet tireless hand.  Would she ever
see him again?
On the way to the mart they passed under the shadow of the grim prison
walls of the palace.  The elephants veered off here into a side street,
toward the huge square where horses and cattle and elephants were
bought and sold.  The litter, in charge of the chief mahout, proceeded
to the slave mart.  Kathlyn glanced at the wall, wondering.  Was her
father alive?  Was he in some bleak cell behind that crumbling masonry?
Did he know that she was here?  Or was he really dead?  Ah, perhaps it
were better that death should have taken him--better that than having
his living heart wrung by the tale of his daughter's unspeakable
miseries.
Even as she sent a last lingering look at the prison the prisoner
within, his head buried in his thin wasted hands, beheld her in a
vision--but in a happy, joyous vision, busying about the living room of
the bungalow.
And far away a younger man beheld a vision as very tenderly he gazed at
Kathlyn's discarded robe and resumed his determined quest.  Often,
standing beside his evening fires, he would ask the silence, "Kathlyn,
where are you?"  Even then he was riding fast toward Allaha.
A slave mart is a rare thing these days, but at the time these scenes
were being enacted there existed many of them here and there across the
face of the globe.  Men buy and sell men and women these
times--enlightened, so they say--but they do it by legal contract or
from vile hiding places.
Allaha had been a famous mart in its prime.  It had drawn the agents of
princes from all over India.  Persia, Beloochistan, Afghanistan, and
even southern Russia had been rifled of their beauties to adorn the
zenanas of the slothful Hindu princes.
The slave mart in the capital town of Allaha stood in the center of the
bazaars, a great square platform with a roof, but open on all four
sides.  Here the slaves were exhibited, the poor things intended for
dalliance and those who were to struggle and sweat and die under the
overseer's lash.
Every fortnight a day was set aside for the business of the mart.
Owners and prospective buyers met, chewed betel-nut, smoked their
hookas, sipped coffee and tea, and exchanged the tattle of the hour.
It was as much an amusement as a business; indeed, it was the oriental
idea of a club, and much the same things were discussed.  Thus, Appaji
bought a beautiful girl at the last barter and Roya found a male who
was a good juggler, and only night before last they had traded.  The
bazaars were not what they used to be.  Dewan Ali had sold his wife to
a Punjab opium merchant.  Aunut Singh's daughter had run away with the
son of a bheestee.  All white people ate pig.  And no one read the
slokas, or moral, stanzas, any more.  Yes, the English would come some
day, when there would be enough money to warrant it.
All about there were barkers, and fruit sellers, and bangle wallas (for
slave girls should have rings of rupee silver about their ankles and
wrists), and solemn Brahmins, and men who painted red and ocher caste
marks on one's forehead, and ash covered fakirs with withered hands,
Nautch girls, girls from the bazaars, peripatetic jewelers, kites, and
red-headed vultures--this being a proper place for them.
The chief mahout purchased for Kathlyn a beautiful saree, or veil,
which partially concealed her face and hair.
"Chalu!" he said, touching Kathlyn's shoulder, whenever she lagged, for
they had dispensed with the litter, "Go on!"
She understood.  Outwardly she appeared passive enough, but her soul
was on fire and her eyes as brilliant as those of the circling,
whooping kites, watching that moment which was to offer some loophole.
On through the noisy bazaars, the object of many a curious remark,
sometimes insulted by the painted women at the windows, sometimes
jested at by the idlers around the merchants' booths.  Vaguely she
wondered if some one of her ancestors had not been terribly wicked and
that she was paying the penalty.
It seemed to her, however, that a film of steel had grown over her
nerves; nothing startled her; she sensed only the watchfulness she had
often noted in the captives at the farm.
At length they came out into the busy mart.  The old mahout
congratulated himself upon the docility of his find.  It would stiffen
the bidding to announce that she was gentle.  He even went so far as to
pat her on the shoulder.  The steel film did not cover all her nerves,
so it would seem; the patted shoulder was vulnerable.  She winced, for
she read clearly enough what was in the mind back of that touch.
She had made her plans.  To the man who purchased her she would assume
a meekness of spirit in order to lull his watchfulness.  To the man who
purchased her . . .  Kathlyn Hare!  She laughed.  The old man behind
her nodded approvingly, hearing the sound but not sensing its import.
Ah, when the moment came, when the fool who bought her started to lead
her home, she would beguile him and at the first sign of carelessness
she would trust to her heels.  She knew that she was going to run as
never a woman ran before; back to the beasts of the jungle, who at
least made no effort to molest her so long as she kept out of their way.
Wild and beautiful she was as the old mahout turned her over to a
professional seller.
"Circassian!"
"From the north!"
"A bride from the desert!"
"A yellow-hair!"
"A daughter of the north seas!"
The old mahout squatted close by and rubbed his hands.  He would be a
rich man that night; bags of rupees; a well thatched house to cover his
gray hairs till that day they placed him on the pyre at the burning
ghat.  The gods were good.
Durga Ram, known familiarly as Umballa, at this hour came forth into
the sunshine, brooding.  He was not in a happy frame of mind.  Many
things lay heavy upon his soul; but among these things there was not
one named remorse.  To have brought about all these failures this
thought irked him most.  Here was a crown almost within reach of his
greedy fingers, the water to Tantalus.  To have underestimated this
yellow haired young woman, he who knew women so well--there lay the
bitter sting.  He had been too impetuous; he should have waited till
all her fears had been allayed.  That spawn of Siva, the military, was
insolent again, and rupees to cross their palms were scarce.  Whither
had she blown?  Was she dead?  Was she alive?
The white hunter had not returned to his camp yet, but the sly Ahmed
was there.  The perpetual gloom on the face of the latter was
reassuring to Umballa.  Ahmed's master had not found her.  To wring the
white man's heart was something.  He dared not put him out of the way;
too many knew.
And the council was beginning to grow uneasy.  How long could he hold
them in leash?
What a woman!  As magnificent as the daughter of Firoz, shah of Delhi.
Fear she knew not.  At one moment he loved her with his whole soul, at
another he hated her, longed to get her into his hands again, to wreak
his vengeance upon her for the humiliation she had by wit and courage
heaped upon him.  "I am ready!"  He could hear it yet.  When they had
led her away to the ordeals--"I am ready!"  A woman, and not afraid to
die!
Money!  How to get it!  He could not plunge his hand into the treasury;
there were too many about, too many tongues.  But Colonel Hare knew
where the silver basket lay hidden, heaped with gold and precious
stones; and torture could not wring the hiding-place from him.  May he
be damned to the nethermost hell!  Let him, Durga Ram, but bury his
lean hands in that treasure, and Daraka swallow Allaha and all its
kings!  Rubies and pearls and emeralds, and a far country to idle in,
to be feted in, to be fawned upon for his riches!
And Ramabai and his wife, Pundita, let them beware; let them remain
wisely in their house and meddle not with affairs of state.
"A thousand rupees!"
Umballa looked up with a start.  Unconsciously he had wandered into the
slave mart.  He shrugged and would have passed on but for the strange,
unusual figure standing on the platform.  A golden haired woman with
neck and arms like Chinese bronze and dressed in a skirt of grass!  He
paused.
"Two thousand rupees!"
"What!" jeered the professional seller.  "For an houri from paradise?
O ye of weak hearts, what is this I hear?  Two thousand rupees?--for an
houri fit to dwell in the zenana of heaven!"
A keen-eyed Mohammedan edged closer to the platform.  He stared and
sucked in his breath.  He found himself pulled two ways.  He had no
money, but he had knowledge.
"Who sells this maiden?" he asked.
"Mohammed Ghori."
"Which is he?"
"He squats there."
The Mohammedan stopped and touched the old mahout on the shoulder.
"Call off this sale, and my master will make you rich."
The old sinner gingerly felt of the speaker's cotton garb.  "Ah!  'My
master' must be rich to dress thee in cotton.  Where is your gold?
Bid," satirically.
"Two thousand rupees!" shouted the professional seller.
"I have no gold, but my master will give 10,000 rupees for yonder maid.
Quick!  Old fool, be quick!"
"Begone, thou beggar!"
And the old man spat.
"Mem-sahib," the Mohammedan called out in English, "do not look toward
me, or all will be lost.  I am Ali, Bruce Sahib's chief mahout; and we
have believed you dead!  Take care!  I go to inform Ahmed.  Bruce Sahib
has not returned."
Kathlyn, when she heard that voice, shut her eyes.
Umballa had drawn closer.  There was something about this half veiled
slave that stirred his recollection.  Where had he seen that graceful
poise?  The clearness of the skin, though dark; the roundness of the
throat and arms. . . .
"Three thousand rupees!"
The old mahout purred and smoothed his palms together.  Three thousand
rupees, a rajah's ransom!  He would own his elephant; his wife should
ride in a gilded palanquin, and his children should wear shoes.  Three
thousand rupees!  He folded his arms and walked gently to and fro.
"Five thousand rupees!" said Umballa, impelled by he knew not what to
make this bid.
A ripple of surprise ran over the crowd.  The regent, the powerful
Durga Ram, was bidding in person for his zenana.
Kathlyn's nerves tingled with life again, and the sudden bounding of
her heart stifled her.  Umballa!  She was surely lost.  Sooner or later
he would recognize her.
The mahout stood up, delighted.  He was indeed fortunate.  He salaamed.
"Huzoor, she is gentle," he said.
The high-caste who had bid 3,000 rupees salaamed also.
"Highness, she is yours," he said.  "I can not bid against my regent."
It was the custom to mark a purchased slave with the caste of her
purchaser.  Umballa, still not recognizing her, waved her aside toward
the Brahmin caste markers, one of whom daubed her forehead with a
yellow triangle.  Her blue eyes pierced the curious brown ones.
"The sahib at the river," she whispered in broken Hindustani.  "Many
rupees.  Bring him to the house of Durga Ram."  This in case Ali failed.
The Brahmin's eyes twinkled.  Her Hindustani was execrable, but "sahib"
and "river" were plain to his understanding.  There was but one sahib
by the river, and he was the white hunter who had rescued the vanished
queen from the ordeals.  He nodded almost imperceptibly.  Inwardly he
smiled.  He was not above giving the haughty upstart a Thuggee's twist.
He spoke to his neighbor quietly, assigned to him his bowls and
brushes, rose, and made off.
"Follow me," said Umballa to the happy mahout.  Presently he would have
his bags of silver, bright and twinkling.
Fate overtook Ali, who in his mad race to Hare's camp fell and badly
sprained his ankle.  Moaning, less from the pain than from the
attendant helplessness, he was carried into the hut of a kindly ryot
and there ministered to.
The Brahmin, however, filled with greed and a sly humor, reached his
destination in safety.  Naturally cunning, double tongued, sly,
ingratiating, after the manner of all Brahmins, who will sink to any
base level in order to attain their equivocal ends his actions were
unhampered by any sense of treachery toward Umballa.  A Thuggee's twist
to the schemes of the street rat Umballa, who wore the Brahmin string,
to which he had no right!  The Brahmin chuckled as he paused at the
edge of Bruce's camp.  A fat purse lay yonder.  He approached, his
outward demeanor a mixture of pride and humility.
Bruce had returned but half an hour before, mind weary, bone tired.  He
sat with his head in his hands, his elbows propped upon his knees.  His
young heart was heavy.  He had searched the bewildering jungle as one
might search a plot of grass before one's door, blade by blade.  A
hundred times he had found traces of her; a hundred times he had called
out her name, only to be mocked and gibbered at by apes.  She had
vanished like a perfume, like a cloud shadow in the wind.
His soul was bitter; for he had built many dreams, and always this fair
haired girl had ridden upon them.  So straight she stood, so calm in
the eyes, mannered with that gentleness, known of the brave. . . .
Gone, and skilled as he was in jungle lore, he could not find her.
"Sahib, a Brahmin desires audience."
"Ask him what he wants."
"It is for the sahib's ear alone."
"Ah!  Bring him to me quickly."
The Brahmin approached, salaamed.
"What do you wish?" Bruce asked curtly.
"A thousand rupees, Huzoor!" blandly.
"And what have you that is worth that many rupees?" irritably.
The Brahmin salaamed again.  "Huzoor, a slave this day was purchased by
Durga Ram, Umballa, so-called.  She has skin the color of old tusks,
and eyes like turquoise, and lips like the flame of the jungle, and
hair like the sands of Ganges, mother of rivers."
Bruce was upon his feet, alive, eager.  He caught the Brahmin by the
arm.
"Is this woman white?" harshly.
"Huzoor, the women of Allaha are always dark of hair."
"And was sold as a slave?"
"To Durga Ram, the king without a crown, Huzoor.  It is worth a
thousand rupees," smiling.
"Tell me," said Bruce, stilling the tremor in his voice, "tell me, did
she follow him without a struggle?"
"Yes.  But would a struggle have done any good?"
Bruce took out his wallet and counted out a thousand rupees in Bank of
India notes.  "Now, listen.  Umballa must not know that I know.  On
your head, remember."
"Huzzor, the word of a Brahmin."
"Ah, yes; but I have lived long here.  Where is Ali?" cried Bruce,
turning to one of his men.
"He went into the city this morning, Sahib, and has not returned."
"Come," said Bruce to the waiting Brahmin, "We'll return together."  He
now felt no excitement at all; it was as if he had been immersed in ice
water.  It was Kathlyn, not the least doubt of it, bought and sold in
the slave mart.  Misery, degradation . . . then he smiled.  He knew
Kathlyn Hare.  If he did not come to her aid quickly she would be dead.
Now, when Umballa took her into his house, Kathlyn was determined to
reveal her identity.  She had passed through the ordeals; she was, in
law, a queen, with life and death in her hands.
"Do not touch me!" she cried slowly in English.
Umballa stepped back.
"I am Kathlyn Hare, and if all the world is not made up of lies and
wickedness, I am the queen you yourself made.  I can speak a few words,
enough to make myself known to the populace.  I will make a bargain
with you.  I will give you five times five thousand rupees if you will
deliver me safely in Peshawer.  On my part, I promise to say nothing,
nothing."
Umballa raised both his hands in astonishment.  He knew now why that
form had stirred his recollection.
"You!"  He laughed and clapped his hands to summon his servants.
Kathlyn, realizing that it was useless to attempt to move this man,
turned and started to run, but he intercepted her.  "My queen, my bride
that was to be, the golden houri!  Five times five thousand rupees
would not purchase a hair of your head."
"I am your queen!"  But she said it without heart.
"What!  Do you believe that?  Having passed the ordeals you nullified
the effect by running away.  You will be whatever I choose!  Oh, it
will be legally done.  You shall go with me to the council, and the
four of us shall decide.  Ah, you would not be my wife!"
"You shall die, Durga Ram," she replied, "and it will be the death of a
pariah dog."
"Ah!  Still that spirit which I loved.  Why, did I not buy you without
knowing who you were?  Are you not mine?  At this very moment I could
place you in my zenana and who would ever know?  And soon you would not
want any one to know."
"Are you without mercy?"
"Mercy?  I know not the word.  But I have an ambition which surpasses
all other things.  My wife you shall be, or worse.  But legally, always
legally!"  He laughed again and swiftly caught her in his arms.  She
struggled like a tigress, but without avail.  He covered her face and
neck with kisses, then thrust her aside.  "Poor little fool!  If you
had whined and whimpered I should have let you go long since.  But
there burns within you a spirit I must conquer, and conquer I will!"
Kathlyn stood panting against a pillar.  Had she held a weapon in her
hand she would have killed him without compunction, as one crushes a
poisonous viper.
"Legally!  Why, all the crimes in Hind are done under that word.  It is
the shibboleth of the British Raj.  Legally!  Come!"
"I will not stir!"
"Then be carried," he replied, beckoning his servants.
"No, no!"
"Ah!  Well, then, we'll ride together in the palanquin."
To struggle would reward her with nothing but shame and humiliation; so
she bent her head to the inevitable.  A passionate longing to be
revenged upon this man began to consume her.  She wanted the feel of
his brown throat in her fingers; wanted to beat him down to his knees,
to twist and crush him.  But she was a woman and she had not the
strength of a man.
"Behold!" cried Umballa later, as he entered the presence of the
council, "behold a slave of mine!" He pushed Kathlyn forward.  "This
day I bought her for five thousand rupees."
The council stirred nervously.
"Do you not recognize her?" exultantly.
The council whispered to one another.
"Legally she is mine, though she has been a queen.  But by running away
she has forfeited her rights to the law of the ordeals.  Am I not
right?"
The council nodded gravely.  They had not yet wholly recovered from
their bewilderment.
"On the other hand, her identity must remain a secret till I have
developed my plans," continued Umballa.
"You are all courting a terrible reprisal," said Kathlyn.  "I beg of
you to kill me at once; do not prolong my torture, my misery.  I have
harmed none of you, but you have grievously harmed me.  One even now
seeks aid of the British Raj; and there are many soldiers."
The threat was ill timed.
The head of the council said to Umballa: "It would be wise to lock her
up for the present.  We all face a great complication."
"A very wise counsel," agreed Umballa, knowing that he had but to say
the word to destroy them all.  "And she shall have company.  I would
not have her lonely.  Come, majesty; deign to follow your humble
servant."  Umballa salaamed.
Kathlyn was led to a cell in the palace prison, whose walls she had but
a little while ago viewed in passing, and thrust inside.  A single
window admitted a faint light.  Umballa remained by the door, chuckling
softly.  Presently, her eyes becoming accustomed to the dark, Kathlyn
discovered a man chained to a pillar.  The man suddenly leaned forward.
"Kit, my Kit!"
"Father!"
She caught him to her breast in her strong young arms, crooned to him,
and kissed his matted head.  And they stood that way for a long time.
At this very moment there appeared before the council a wild eyed,
disheveled young man.  How he had passed the palace guard none of them
knew.
"A white woman was brought into this room forcibly a few minutes ago.
I demand her!  And by the God of my father I will cut out the heart of
every one of you if you deny me!  She is white; she is of my race!"
"There is no white woman here, Bruce Sahib."
"You lie!" thundered the young man.
Two guards came in quickly.
"I say you lie!  She was seen to enter here!"
"This man is mad!  Besides, it is sacrilege for him to enter our
presence in this manner," cried one of the council.  "Seize him!"
A fierce struggle between the guards and Bruce followed; but his race
to the city and the attendant excitement had weakened him.  He was
carried away, still fighting manfully.
In the meantime Umballa concluded that the reunion had lasted long
enough.  He caught Kathlyn roughly by the shoulder and pulled her away.
"Behold, Colonel Sahib!  Mine!  I bought her this day in the slave
mart.  Legally mine!  Now will you tell me where that silver basket
lies hidden, with its gold and game?"
"Father, do not tell him!" warned Kathlyn.  "So long as we do not tell
him he does not put us out of the way!"
"Kit!"
"Dad, poor dad!"
"Little fool!" said Umballa.
Kathlyn struggled to reach her father again, but could not.  Umballa
folded his arms tightly about her and attempted to kiss her.  This time
her strength was superhuman.  She freed her hands and beat him in the
face, tore his garments, dragged off his turban.  The struggle brought
them within the radius of the colonel's reach.  The prisoner caught his
enemy by the throat, laughing insanely.
"Now, you black dog, die!"
CHAPTER IX
THE COLONEL IN CHAINS
The colonel and Umballa swayed back and forth.  Umballa sank to his
knees and then fought madly to rise but the hands at his throat were
the hands of a madman, steel, resistless.  The colonel's chains clinked
sharply.  Lower and lower went Umballa's head; he saw death peering
into the cell.  His cry rattled in his throat.
Not a sound from Kathlyn.  She watched the battle, unfeeling as marble.
Let the wretch die; let him feel the fear of death; let him suffer as
he had made others suffer.  What new complications might follow
Umballa's death did not alarm her.  How could she be any worse off than
she was?  He had polluted her cheeks with his kisses.  He had tortured
and shamed her as few white women have been.  Mercy?  He had said that
day that he knew not the word.
"Ah, you dog!  Haven't I prayed God for days for this chance?  You
black caha!  Die!"
But Umballa was not to die at that moment or in that fashion.
That nervous energy which had infused the colonel with the strength of
a lion went out like a spark, and as quickly.  Umballa rolled from his
paralyzed fingers and lay on the floor, gasping and sobbing.  Hare fell
back against the pillar, groaning.  The cessation of dynamic nerve
force filled him with racking pains and a pitiable weakness.  But for
the pillar he would have hung by his chains.
Kathlyn, with continued apathy, stared down at her enemy.  He was not
dead.  He would kill them both now.  Why, she asked with sudden
passion, why this misery?  What had she done in her young life to merit
it?  Under-fed, dressed in grass, harassed by men and wild beasts--why?
Umballa edged out of danger and sat up, feeling tenderly of his throat.
Next he picked up his turban and crawled to the open door.  He pulled
himself up and stood there, weakly.  But there was venom enough in his
eyes.  The tableau lasted a minute or two; then slowly he closed the
door, bolted it, and departed.
This ominous silence awoke the old terror in Kathlyn's heart far more
than oral threats would have done.  There would be reprisal, something
finished in cruelty.
"My dear, my dear!"  She ran over to her father and flung her arms
about him, supporting him and mothering him.  An hour passed.
"All in, Kit, all in; haven't the strength of a cat.  Ah, great God; if
that strength had but lasted a moment longer.  Well, he's still alive.
But, O, my Kit, my golden Kit, to see you here is to be tortured like
the damned.  And it is all my fault, all mine!"  The man who had once
been so strong sobbed hysterically.
"Hush, hush!"
"There were rare and wonderful jewels of which I alone knew the hiding
place.  But God knows that it was not greed; I wanted them for you and
Winnie . . .  I knew you were here.  Trust that black devil to announce
the fact to me . . .  God! what I haven't suffered in the way of
suspense!  Kit, Kit, what has he done to you?"
Briefly she recounted her adventures, and when she had done he bowed
his head upon her bare shoulder and wept as only strong men, made weak,
weep.
To Kathlyn it was terrible.  "Father, don't, don't!  You hurt me!  I
can't stand it!"
After a while he said: "What shall we do, Kit; what shall we do?"
"I will marry him, father," she answered quietly.  "We can take our
revenge afterward."
"What!"
"If it will save you."
"Child, let me rot here.  What!  Would you trust him, knowing his false
heart as you do?  The moment you married him would be my death warrant.
No, no!  If you weaken now I shall curse you, curse you, my Kit!  There
has been horror enough.  I can die."
"Well, and so can I, father."
Silence.  After a cockatoo shrilled; a laugh came faintly through the
window, and later the tinkle of music.  Up above the world was going on
the same as usual.  Trains were hurrying to and fro; the great ships
were going down the sapphire seas; children were at play, and the world
wide marts were busying with the daily affairs of men.
"Jewels!" she murmured, gazing at the sky beyond the grilled window.
Was there ever a precious stone that lay not in the shadow of blood and
misery?  Poor, poor, foolish father!  As if jewels were in beauty a
tithe of the misery they begot!
"Ay, Kit, jewels; sapphires and rubies and emeralds, diamonds and
pearls and moonstones.  And I wanted them for my pretty cubs!  Umballa
knew that I would return for them and laid his plans.  But were they
not mine?"
"Yes, if you intended to rule these people; no, if you thought to take
them away.  Do you not know that to Winnie and me a hair of your head
is more precious than the Koh-i-noor?  We must put our heads together
and plan some way to get out."
She dropped her arms from his shoulders and walked about the cell,
searching every stone.  Their only hope lay in the window, and that
appeared impossible since she had no means of filing through her
father's chains and the bars of the window.  She returned and sat down
beside her father and rested her aching head on her knees, thinking,
thinking.
Bruce, struggling with the soldiers (and long since their fat flesh had
been stung into such activity!) saw Umballa appear in the corridor.
"Durga Ram," he cried, with a furious effort to free his arms.  "Durga
Ram, you damnable scoundrel, it would be wise for you to kill me, here
and now, for if I ever get free.  God help you!  O, I shan't kill you;
that would be too merciful.  But I'll break your bones, one by one, and
never more shall you stand and walk.  Do you hear me?  Where is Kathlyn
Hare?  She is mine!"
Umballa showed his teeth in what was an attempt to smile.  He still saw
flashes of fire before his eyes, and it was yet difficult to breathe
naturally.  Still, he could twist this white man's heart, play with him.
"Take him away.  Put him outside the city gates and let him go."
Bruce was greatly astonished at this sign of clemency.
"But," added Umballa, crossing his lips with his tongue, "place him
against a wall and shoot him if he is caught within the city.  He is
mad, and therefore I am lenient.  There is no white woman in the palace
or in the royal zenana.  Off with him!"
"You lie, Durga Ram!  You found her in the slave mart to-day."
Umballa shrugged and waved his hand.  He could have had Bruce shot at
once, but it pleased him to dangle death before the eyes of his rival.
He was no fool; he saw the trend of affairs.  This young white man
loved Kathlyn Hare.  All the better, in view of what was to come.
Bruce was conducted to the gate and rudely pushed outside.  He turned
savagely, but a dozen black officers convinced him that this time he
would meet death.  Ah, where was Ali, and Ahmed, and the man Lal Singh,
who was to notify the English?  He found Ali at camp, the chief mahout
having been conducted there in an improvised litter.  He recounted his
experiences.
"I was helpless, Sahib."
"No more than I am, Ali.  But be of good cheer; Umballa and I shall
meet soon, man to man."
"Allah is Allah; there is no God but God."
"And sometimes," said Bruce, moodily, "he watches over the innocent."
"Ahmed is at Hare Sahib's camp."
"Thanks, Ali; that's the best news I have heard yet.  Ahmed will find a
way.  Take care of yourself.  I'm off!"
When Umballa appeared before the council their astonishment knew no
bounds.  The clay tinted skin, the shaking hands, the disheveled
garments--what had happened to this schemer whom ill luck had made
their master?
He explained.  "I went too near our prisoner.  A flash of strength was
enough.  They shall be flogged."
"But the woman!"
"Woman?  She is a tiger-cat, and tiger-cats must sometimes be flogged.
It is my will.  Now I have news for you.  There is another sister,
younger and weaker.  Our queen," and he salaamed ironically, "our queen
did not know that her father lived, and there I made my first mistake."
"But she will now submit to save him!"
"Ah, would indeed that were the case.  But tiger-cats are always
tiger-cats, and nothing will bend this maid; she must be broken,
broken.  It is my will," with a flash of fire in his eyes.
The council salaamed.  Umballa's will must of necessity be theirs, hate
him darkly as they might.
The bungalow of Colonel Hare was something on the order of an armed
camp.  Native animal keepers, armed with rifles, patrolled the
menagerie.  No one was to pass the cordon without explaining frank his
business, whence he came, and whither he was bound.
By the knees of one of the sentries a little native child was playing.
From time to time the happy father would stoop and pat her head.
Presently there was a stir about camp.  An elephant shuffled into the
clearing.  He was halted, made to kneel, and Ahmed stepped out of the
howdah.
The little girl ran up to Ahmed joyfully and begged to be put into the
howdah.  Smiling, Ahmed set her in the howdah, and the mahout bade the
elephant to rise, but, interested in some orders by Ahmed, left the
beast to his own devices.  The child called and the elephant walked off
quietly.  So long as he remained within range of vision no one paid any
attention to him.  Finally he passed under a tree near the cages and
reached up for some leaves.  The child caught hold of a limb and
gleefully crawled out upon it some distance beyond the elephant's
reach.  Once there, she became frightened, not daring to crawl back.
She prattled "elephant talk," but the old fellow could not reach her.
The baboon in the near-by cage set up a chattering.  The child ordered
the elephant to rise on his hind legs.  He placed his fore legs on the
roof of the baboon's cage, which caved in, rather disturbing the
elephant's calm.  He sank to the ground.
The baboon leaped through the opening and made off to test this
unexpected liberty.  He was friendly and tame, but freedom was just
then paramount.
The elephant remained under the trees, as if pondering, while the child
began to cry loudly.  One of the natives saw her predicament and
hastened away for assistance.
Achmed was greatly alarmed over the loss of the baboon.  It was a camp
pet of Colonel Hare's and ran free in camp whenever the colonel was
there.  He had captured it when a mere baby in British East Africa.
The troglodyte, with a strange reasoning yet untranslatable, loved the
colonel devotedly and followed him about like a dog and with a scent
far keener.  So Ahmed and some of the keepers set off in search of the
colonel's pet.
He went about the search with only half a heart.  Only a little while
before he had received the news of what had happened in the slave mart
that afternoon.  It seemed incredible.  To have her fall into Umballa's
hands thus easily, when he and Bruce Sahib had searched the jungle far
and wide!  Well, she was alive; praise Allah for that; and where there
was life there was hope.
Later Kathlyn was standing under the cell window gazing at the yellow
sunset.  Two hours had gone, and no sign of Umballa yet.  She
shuddered.  Had she been alone she would have hunted for something
sharp and deadly.  But her father; not before him.  She must wait.  One
thing was positive and absolute: Umballa should never embrace her; she
was too strong and desperate.
"Kit!"
"Yes, father."
"I have a sharp piece of metal in my pocket.  Could you . . .  My God,
by my hand! . . . when he comes?"
"Yes, father; I am not afraid to die, and death seems all that remains.
I should bless you.  He will be a tiger now."
"My child, God was good to give me a daughter like you."
She turned to him this time and pressed him to her heart.
"It grows dark suddenly," he said.
Kathlyn glanced toward the window.
"Why, it's a baboon!" she exclaimed.
"Jock, Jock!" cried her father excitedly.
The baboon chattered.
"Kit, it's Jock I used to tell you about.  He is tame and follows me
about like a dog.  Jock, poor Jock!"
"Father, have you a pencil?"
"A pencil?" blankly.
"Yes, yes!  I can write a note and attach it to Jock.  It's a chance."
"Good lord! and you're cool enough to think like that."  The colonel
went through his pockets feverishly.  "Thank God, here's an old stub!
But paper?"
Kathlyn tore off a broad blade of grass from her dress and wrote
carefully upon it.  If it fell into the hands of the natives they would
not understand, If the baboon returned to camp . . .  It made her weak
to realize how slender the chance was.  She took the tabouret and
placed it beneath the window and stood upon it.
"Jock, here, Jock!"
The baboon gave her his paws.  Deftly she tied the blade of grass round
his neck.  Then she struck her hands together violently.  The baboon
vanished, frightened at this unexpected treatment.
"He is gone."
The colonel did not reply, but began to examine his chains minutely.
"Kit, there's no getting me out of here without files.  If there is any
rescue you go and return.  Promise."
"I promise."
Then they sat down to wait.
And Ahmed in his search came to the river.  Some natives were swimming
and sporting in the water.  Ahmed put a question.  Oh, yes, they had
seen the strange-looking ape (for baboons did not habitate this part of
the world); he had gone up one of the trees near by.  Colonel Hare had
always used a peculiar whistle to bring Jock, and Ahmed resorted to
this device.  Half an hour's perseverance rewarded him; and then he
found the blade of grass.
"Dungeon window by tree.  Kathlyn."
That was sufficient for Ahmed.  He turned the baboon over to the care
of one of his subordinates and hurried away to Bruce's camp, only to
find that he had gone to the colonel's.  Away went Ahmed again,
tireless.  He found Bruce pacing the bungalow frontage.
"Ahmed."
"Yes, Sahib.  Listen."  He told his tale quickly.
"The guards at all the gates have orders to shoot me if they catch me
within the walls of the city.  I must disguise myself in some way."
"I'll find you an Arab burnoose, hooded, Sahib, and that will hide you.
It will be dark by the time we reach the city, and we'll enter by one
of the other gates.  That will allay suspicion.  First we must seek the
house of Ramabai.  I need money for bribery."
Bruce searched his wallet.  It was empty.  He had given all he had to
the Brahmin.
"You lead, Ahmed.  I'm dazed."
In the city few knew anything about Ahmed, not even the keenest of
Umballa's spies.  Umballa had his suspicions, but as yet he could prove
nothing.  To the populace he was a harmless animal trainer who was only
too glad not in any way to be implicated with his master.  So they let
him alone.  Day by day he waited for the report from Lal Singh, but so
far he had heard nothing except that the British Raj was very busy
killing the followers of the Mahdi in the Soudan.  It was a subtle
inference that for the present all aliens in Allaha must look out for
themselves.
"Sahib," he whispered, "I have learned something.  Day after day I have
been waiting, hoping.  Colonel Sahib lives, but where I know not."
"Lives!"
"Ai!  In yonder prison where later we go.  He lives.  That is enough
for his servant.  He is my father and my mother, and I would die for
him and his.  Ah!  Here is the north gate.  Bend your head, Sahib, when
we pass."
They entered the city without mishap.  No one questioned them.  Indeed,
they were but two in a dozen who passed in at the same time.  They
threaded the narrow streets quickly, skirting the glow of many dung
fires for fear that Bruce's leggings might be revealed under his
burnoose.
When at length they came to the house of Ramabai they did not seek to
enter the front, but chose the gate in the rear of the garden.  The
moon was up and the garden was almost as light as day.
"Ramabai!" called Bruce in a whisper.
The dreaming man seated at a table came out of his dream with a start.
A servant ran to the gate.
"Who calls?" demanded Ramabai, suspicious, as all conspirators ever are.
"It is I, Bruce," was the reply in English, flinging aside his burnoose.
"Bruce Sahib?  Open!" cried Ramabai.  "What do you here?  Have you
found her?"
Ramabai's wife, Pundita, came from the house.  She recognized Bruce
immediately.
"The Mem-sahib!  Have you found her?"
"Just a moment.  Kathlyn Mem-sahib is in one of the palace dungeons.
She must be liberated to-night.  We need money to bribe what sentries
are about."  Bruce went on to relate the incident of the baboon.  "This
proves that the note was written not more than three hours ago.  She
will probably be held there till morning.  This time we'll place her
far beyond the reach of Umballa."
"Either my money or my life.  In a month from now . . ."
"What?" asked Ahmed.
"Ah, I must not tell."  Pundita stole close to Ramabai.
Ahmed smiled.
"We have elephants but a little way outside the city.  We have pulling
chains.  Let us be off at once.  It is not necessary to enter the city,
for this window, Ahmed says, is on the outside.  We can easily approach
the wall in a roundabout way without being seen.  Have you money?"
From his belt Ramabai produced some gold.
"That will be sufficient.  To you, then, the bribing.  The men, should
there be any, will hark to you.  Come!" concluded Bruce, impatient to
be off.
"And I?" timidly asked Pundita.
"You will seek Hare Sahib's camp," said Ramabai.  "This is a good
opportunity to get you away also."
Ahmed nodded approvingly.
Pundita kissed her husband; for these two loved each other, a
circumstance almost unknown in this dark mysterious land of many gods.
"Pundita, you will remain at the camp in readiness to receive us.  At
dawn we shall leave for the frontier.  And when we return it will be
with might and reprisal.  Umballa shall die the death of a dog."
Ramabai clenched his hands.
"But first," cooed Ahmed, "he shall wear out the soles of his pig's
feet in the treadmill.  It is written.  I am a Mohammedan.  Yet
sometimes these vile fakirs have the gift of seeing into the future.
And me has seen . . ."  He paused.
"Seen what?" demanded Bruce.
"I must not put false hopes in your hearts.  But this I may say: Trials
will come, bitter and heart burning: a storm, a whirlwind, a fire; but
peace is after that.  But Allah uses us as his tools.  Let us haste!"
"And I?" said Ramabai, sending a piercing glance at Ahmed.
But Ahmed smiled and shook his head.  "Wait and see, Ramabai.  Some day
they will call you the Fortunate.  Let us hurry.  My Mem-sahib waits."
"What did this fakir see?" whispered Bruce as he donned his burnoose
again.
"Many wonderful things; but perhaps the fakir lied.  They all lie.  Yet
. . . hurry!"
The quartet passed out of the city unmolested.  Ramabai's house was
supposed to be under strict surveillance; but the soldiers, due to
largess, were junketing in the bazaars.  Shortly they came up to two
elephants with howdahs.  They were the best mannered of the half dozen
owned or rented by Colonel Hare.  Mahouts sat astride.  Rifles reposed
in the side sheaths.  This was to be no light adventure.  There might
be a small warfare.
Pundita flung her arms around Ramabai, and he consoled her.  She was
then led away to the colonel's camp.
"Remember," Ramabai said at parting, "she saved both our lives.  We owe
a debt."
"Go, my Lord; and may all the gods--no, the Christian God--watch over
you!"
"Forward!" growled Ahmed.  First, though, he saw to it that the pulling
chains were well wrapped in cotton blankets.  There must be no sound to
warn others of their approach.
"Ahmed," began Bruce.
"Leave all things to me, Sahib," interrupted Ahmed, who assumed a
strange authority at times that confused and puzzled Bruce.  "It is my
Mem-sahib, and I am one of the fingers of the long arm of the British
Raj.  And there are books in Calcutta in which my name is written high.
No more!"
Through the moon-frosted jungle the two elephants moved silently.  A
drove of wild pigs scampered across the path, and the wild peacock
hissed from the underbrush sleepily.  All silence again.  Several times
Ahmed halted, straining his ears.  It seemed incredible to Bruce that
the enormous beasts could move so soundlessly.  It was a part of their
business; they were hunters of their kind.
At length they came out into the open at the rear of the prison walls.
Here Ramabai got down, and went In search of any sentries.  He returned
almost at once with the good news that there was none.
The marble walls shimmered like clusters of dull opals.  What misery
had been known behind their crumbling beauty!
Ahmed marked the tree and raised his hand as a sign.
"Bruce Sahib!" he called.
"Yes, Ahmed.  I'll risk it first."
Bruce moved the elephant to the barred window.  His heart beat wildly.
He leaned down from his howdah and strove to peer within.
"Kathlyn Hare?" he whispered.
"Who is it?"
"Bruce."
"Father, father!" Bruce heard her cry; "they have found us!"
Ahmed heard the call; and he sighed as one who had Allah to thank.  God
was great and Mahomet was His prophet.
"Listen," said Bruce.  "We shall hook chains to the bars and pull them
out, without noise if possible.  The moment they give . . . have you
anything to stand on?"
"Yes, a tabouret."
"That will serve.  You stand on it, and I'll pull you up and through.
Then your father."
"Father is in chains."
"Ahmed, he is in chains.  What in God's name shall we do?"
"Return for me later," said Hare.  "Don't bother about me.  Get Kit
away, and quickly.  Umballa may return at any moment.  To work, to
work, Bruce, and God bless you!"
They flew to the task.  Round the hooks Ahmed had wrapped cloths to
ward against the clink of metal against metal.  The hooks were deftly
engaged.  The chains grew taut.  So far there was but little noise.
The elephants leaned against the chains; the bars bent and sprang
suddenly from their ancient sockets.
Kathlyn was free.
CHAPTER X
WAITING
Kathlyn flung herself into her father's arms.
"Dad, dad!  To leave you alone!"
"Kit, you are wasting time.  Be off.  Trust me; I wasn't meant to die
in this dog's kennel, curse or no curse.  Kiss me and go!"
"Curse?  What do you mean, father?"
"Ahmed will tell you.  In God's name go, child!"
"Come, Miss Kathlyn," Bruce called anxiously.
Kathlyn then climbed up to the window, and Bruce lifted her into his
howdah, bidding her to lie low.  How strong he was, she thought.  Ah,
something had whispered to her day by day that he would come when she
needed him.  Suddenly she felt her cheeks grow hot with shame.  She
snuggled her bare legs under her grass dress.  Till this moment she had
never given her appearance a single thought.  There had been things so
much more vital.  But youth, and there is ever the way of a man with a
maid.
Now, Kathlyn did not love this quiet, resourceful young man, at least
if she did she was not yet aware of it; but the touch of his hand and
the sound of his voice sent a shiver over her that was not due to the
chill of the night.  She heard him give his orders, low voiced.
"Do not lift your head above the howdah rim, Miss Kathlyn, till we are
in the jungle.  And don't worry about your father.  He's alive, and
that's enough for Ahmed and me.  What a strange world it is, and how
fate shuffles us about!  Forward!"
The curse: what did her father mean by that?  It seemed to Kathlyn that
hours passed before Bruce spoke again.
"Now you may sit up.  What in the world have you got on?  Good heavens,
grass!  You poor girl!"  He took off his coat and threw it across her
shoulders, and was startled by the contact of her warm flesh.
"I can not thank you in words," she said faintly.
"Don't.  Pshaw, it was nothing.  I would have gone----"  He stopped
embarrassedly.
"Well?"  Perhaps it was coquetry which impelled the query; perhaps it
was something deeper.
He laughed.  "I was going to say that I would have gone into the depths
of hell to serve you.  We'll be at your father's bungalow in a minute
or so, and then the final stroke.  Umballa is not dependable.  He may
or may not pay a visit to the cell to-night.  I can only pray that he
will come down the moment I arrive."
But he was not to meet Umballa that night.  Umballa had won his point
in regard to having his prisoners flogged; but, Oriental that he was,
he went about the matter leisurely.  He ate his supper, changed his
clothes and dallied in the zenana for an hour.  The rascal had made a
thorough study of the word "suspense"; he knew the exquisite torture of
making one's victim wait.  For the time being his passion for Kathlyn
had subsided.  He desired above all things just than revenge for the
humiliating experience in the ceil; he wanted to put pain and terror
into her heart.  Ah, she would be on her knees, begging, begging, and
her father would struggle in vain at his shackles.  Spurned; so be it.
She should have a taste of his hate, the black man's hate.  Two should
hold her by the arms while the professional flogger seared the white
soft back of her.  She would soon come to him begging.  He had been too
kind.  The lash of the zenana, it should bite into her soft flesh.  He
would break her spirit and her body together and fling her into his own
zenana to let her gnaw her heart out in suspense.  She should be the
least of his women, the drudge.
First, however, the lash should bite the father till he dropped in his
chains; thus she would be able to anticipate the pain and degradation.
And always there would remain the little dark-haired sister.  She would
marry him; she would do it to save her father and sister.  Then the
filigree basket heaped with rubies and pearls and emeralds and
sapphires!  As for the other, what cared he if he rotted?  It gave him
the whip hand over the doddering council.  Master he would be; he would
blot out all things which stood in his path.  A king, till he had
gathered what fortune he needed.  Then let the jackals howl.
Accompanied by torch bearers, servants and the professional flogger, he
led the way to the cell and flung open the door triumphantly.  For a
moment he could not believe his eyes.  She was gone, and through yonder
window!  Hell of all hells of Hind!  She was gone, and he was robbed!
"Out of your reach this time, you black devil!" cried the colonel.  "Go
on.  Do what you please to me, I'm ready."
Umballa ran to the tabouret and jumped upon it.  He saw the trampled
grass.  Elephants.  And these doubtless had come from the colonel's
camp.  He jumped off the tabouret and dashed to the door.
"Follow me!" he cried.  "Later, Colonel Hare, later!" he threatened.
The colonel remained silent.
Up above, in the palace, Umballa summoned a dozen troopers and gave
them explicit orders.  He was quite confident that Kathlyn would be
carried at once to her father's bungalow, if only for a change of
clothes.  It was a shrewd guess.
As the iron door changed upon the sill Colonel Hare leaned against the
pillar and closed his eyes, praying silently.
At the bungalow Pundita fell at Kathlyn's feet and kissed them.
"Mem-sahib!" she cried brokenly.
"Pundita!"  Kathlyn stooped and gathered her up in her arms.
After that Ramabai would have died for her under any torture.
"Now, Ahmed, what did my father mean when he said 'curse or no curse'?"
"It's a long story, Mem-sahib," said Ahmed evasively.
"Tell it."
"It was in a temple in the south.  The Colonel Sahib took a sapphire
from an idol's eye.  The guru, a very wise and ancient priest, demanded
the return of it.  The Colonel Sahib, being a young man, refused.  The
guru cursed him.  That is all."
"No, Ahmed; there must be more.  Did not the guru curse my father's
children and their children's children?"
"Ah, Mem-sahib, what does the curse of a Hindu amount to?"
"Perhaps it is stronger than we know," glancing down at her dress.
Further discussion was interrupted by one of the armed keepers, who
came rushing up with the news that armed soldiers were approaching.
Bruce swore frankly.  This Umballa was supernaturally keen.  What to do
now?
"Quick!" cried Ahmed.  "Get the howdahs off the elephants."  It was
done.  "Hobble them."  It was immediately accomplished.  "Into the
bungalow, all of you.  Mem-sahib, follow me!"
"What are you going to do?" asked Bruce.
"Hide her where none will dare to look," answered Ahmed.
He seized Kathlyn by the hand and urged her to run.  She had implicit
faith in this old friend, who had once dandled her on his knees.  They
disappeared behind the bungalow and ran toward the animal cages.  He
stopped abruptly before one of the cages.
"A leopard, but harmless.  You'll know how to soothe him if he becomes
nervous.  Enter."
Kathlyn obeyed.
This cage was not a movable one, and had a cavity underneath.  The
heavy teak flooring was not nailed.
The soldiers arrived at the bungalow, boisterously threatening the
arrest of the entire camp if Durga Ram's slave was not produced
forthwith.
"You are mistaken," said Bruce.  "There is no slave here.  Search."
"You stand in extreme danger, Sahib.  You have meddled with what does
not concern you," replied the captain, who had thrown his fortunes with
Umballa, sensing that here was a man who was bound to win and would be
liberal to those who stood by him during the struggle.
"Search," repeated Bruce.
The captain and his men ran about, but not without a certain system of
thoroughness.  They examined the elephants, but were baffled there,
owing to Ahmed's foresight.  They entered the native quarters, looked
under the canvases into the empty cages, from cellar to roof in the
bungalow, when suddenly the captain missed Ahmed.
"Where is the Colonel Sahib's man?" he asked bruskly.
"Possibly he is going the rounds of the animal cages," said Bruce,
outwardly calm and shaking within.
"And thou, Ramabai, beware!"
"Of what, Captain?" coolly.
"Thou, too, hast meddled; and meddlers burn their fingers."
"I am innocent of any crime," said Ramabai.  "I am watched, I know; but
there is still some justice in Allaha."
"Bully for you!" said Bruce in English.
The captain eyed him malevolently.
"Search the animal cages," he ordered.
