"These friends of yours--and of Doris, and of mine ... they're
gentlemen.... And that is why we find them agreeable, socially.... But
when they desire social amusement they know where to find it."
"Where?"
"Where girls who work for a living are unknown. Where they never are
asked, never go, never are expected to go. But that is where such men
are asked, where such men are expected; and it is where they go for
social diversion--not to the Regina with two of Winton's models, nor
to the Café Arabesque with an Egyptian Garden chorus girl, nor--" she
hesitated, flushed, and was silent, staring mentally at the image of
C. Bailey, Jr., which her logic and philosophy had inevitably evoked.
"Then, what is a business girl to do?" asked Catharine, vaguely.
Athalie shook her golden head, slowly: "Don't ask me."
Catharine said, still more vaguely: "She must do
something--pleasant--before she's too old and sick to--to care what
happens."
"I know it.... Men, of that kind, are pleasant.... I don't see why
we shouldn't go out with them. It's all the chance we have. Or will
ever have.... I've thought it over. I don't see that it helps for us
to resent their sisters and mothers and friends. Such women would
never permit us to know them. The nearest we can get to them is to
know their sons."
"I don't want to know them--"
"Yes, you do. Be honest, Catharine. Every girl does. And really I
believe if the choice were offered a business girl, she would rather
know the mothers and sisters than the sons."
"There's no use thinking about it," said Catharine.
"No, there is no use.... And so I don't see any harm in being friends
with their sons.... It will hurt at times--humiliate us--maybe
embitter us.... But it's that or nothing."
"We needn't be silly about their sons."
Athalie opened her dark blue eyes, then laughed confidently: "Oh, as
for anything like that! I should hope not. We three ought to know
something by this time."
"I should think so," murmured Catharine; and her warm, wine-scented
breath fell on Athalie's cheek.
CHAPTER VIII
Before February had ended C. Bailey, Jr., and Athalie Greensleeve had
been to more than one play, had dined and supped together more than
once at the Regina.
The magnificence of the most fashionable restaurant in town had
thrilled and enchanted Athalie. At close range for the first time she
had an opportunity to inspect the rich, the fashionable, and the
great. As for celebrities, they seemed to be merely a by-product of
the gay, animated, beautifully gowned throngs: people she had heard
of, people more important still of whom she had never heard, people
important only to themselves of whom nobody had ever heard thronged
the great rococo rooms. The best hotel orchestra in America played
there; the loveliest flowers, the most magnificent jewels, the most
celebrated cuisine in the entire Republic--all were there for Athalie
Greensleeve to wonder at and to enjoy. There were other things for her
to wonder at, too,--the seemingly exhaustless list of C. Bailey,
Jr.'s, acquaintances; for he was always nodding to somebody or
returning salutes wherever they were, in the theatre, or the street,
in his little limousine car, at restaurants. Men sometimes came up and
spoke and were presented to Athalie: women, never.
But although she was very happy after her first evening out with C.
Bailey, Jr., she realised that a serious inroad upon her savings was
absolutely necessary if she were to continue her maiden's progress
with this enchanting young man. Clothing of a very different species
than any she had ever permitted herself was now becoming a necessity.
She made the inroad. It was worth while if only to see his surprise
and his naïve pride in her.
And truly the girl was very lovely in the few luxuries she ventured to
acquire--so lovely, indeed, that many heads turned and many eyes
followed her calm and graceful progress in theatre aisle, amid
thronged tables, on the Avenue, anywhere and everywhere she moved
along the path of life now already in flowery bloom for her.
And beside her, eager, happy, flattered, walked C. Bailey, Jr., very
conscious that he was being envied; very proud of the beautiful young
girl with whom he was so constantly identifying himself, and who, very
obviously, was doing him honour.
Of his gratified and flattered self-esteem the girl was unconscious;
that he was really happy with her, proud of her appearance, kind to
her beyond reason and even beyond propriety perhaps,--invariably
courteous and considerate, she was vividly aware. And it made her
intensely happy to know that she gave him pleasure and to accept it
from him.
It was pleasure to Clive; but not entirely unmitigated. His father
asked him once or twice who the girl was of whom "people" were
talking; and when his son said: "She's absolutely all right, father,"
Bailey, Sr., knew that she was--so far.
[Illustration: "C. Bailey, Jr., and Athalie Greensleeve ... had supped
together more than once at the Regina."]
"But what's the use, Clive?" he asked with a sort of sad humour. "Is
it necessary for you, too, to follow the path of the calf?"
"I like her."
"And other men are inclined to, and have no opportunity; is that it,
my son? The fascination of monopoly? The chicken with the worm?"
"I like her," repeated Clive, Jr., a trifle annoyed.
"So you have remarked before. Who is she?"
"Do you remember that charming little child in the red hood and cloak
down at Greensleeve's tavern when we were duck-shooting?"
"Is that the girl?"
"Yes."
"What is she?"
"Stenographer."
Bailey, Sr., shrugged his shoulders, patiently.
"What's the use, Clive?"
"Use? Well there's no particular use. I'm not in love with her. Did
you think I was?"
"I don't think any more. Your mother does that for me.... Don't make
anybody unhappy, my son."
       
His mother, also, had made very frank representations to him on
several occasions, the burden of them being that common people beget
common ideas, common associations corrupt good manners, and that
"nice" girls would continue to view with disdain and might ultimately
ostracise any misguided young man of their own caste who played about
with a woman for whose existence nobody who was anybody could account.
"The daughter of a Long Island road-house keeper! Why, Clive! where is
your sense of fitness! Men don't do that sort of thing any more!"
"What sort of thing, mother?"
"What you are doing."
"What am I doing?"
"Parading a very conspicuous young woman about town."
"If you saw her in somebody's drawing-room you'd merely think her
beautiful and well-bred."
"Clive! Will you please awake from that silly dream?"
"That's the truth, mother. And if she spoke it would merely confirm
the impression. You won't believe it but it's true."
"That's absurd, Clive! She may not be uneducated but she certainly
cannot be either cultivated or well-bred."
"She is cultivating herself."
"Then for goodness' sake let her do it! It's praiseworthy and
commendable for a working girl to try to better herself. But it
doesn't concern you."
"Why not? If a business girl does better herself and fit herself for a
better social environment, it seems to me her labour is in vain if
people within the desired environment snub her."
"What kind of argument is that? Socialistic? I merely know it is
unbaked. What theory is it, dear?"
[Illustration: "Beside her, eager, happy, flattered, walked C. Bailey,
Jr., very conscious that he was being envied."]
"I don't know what it is. It seems reasonable to me, mother."
"Clive, are you trying to make yourself sentimentalise over that
Greensleeve woman?"
"I told you that I am not in love with her; nor is she with me. It's
an agreeable and happy comradeship; that's all."
"People think it something more," retorted his mother, curtly.
"That's their fault, not Athalie's and not mine."
"Then, why do you go about with her? Why? You know girls enough,
don't you?"
"Plenty. They resemble one another to the verge of monotony."
"Is that the way you regard the charming, well-born, well-bred,
clever, cultivated girls of your own circle, whose parents were the
friends of your parents?"
"Oh, mother, I like them of course.... But there's something about a
business girl--a girl in the making--that is more amusing, more
companionable, more interesting. A business girl seems to wear better.
She's better worth talking to, listening to,--it's better fun to go
about with her, see things with her, discuss things--"
"What on earth are you talking about! It's perfect babble; it's
nonsense! If you really believe you have a penchant for sturdy and
rather grubby worthiness unadorned you are mistaken. The inclination
you have is merely for a pretty face and figure. I know you. If I
don't, who does! You're rather a fastidious young man, even finicky,
and very, very much accustomed to the best and only the best. Don't
talk to me about your disinterested admiration for a working girl. You
haven't anything in common with her, and you never could have. And
you'd better be very careful not to make a fool of yourself."
"How?"
"As all men are likely to do at your callow age."
"Fall in love with her?"
"You can call it that. The result is always deplorable. And if she's a
smart, selfish, and unscrupulous girl, the result may be more
deplorable still, as far as we all are concerned. What is the need of
my saying this? You are grown; you know it already. Up to the present
time you've kept fastidiously clear of such entanglements. You say you
have, and your father and I believe you. So what is the use of
beginning now,--creating an unfortunate impression in your own set,
spending your time with such a girl as this Greensleeve girl--"
"Mother," he said, "you're going about this matter in the wrong way. I
am not in love with Athalie Greensleeve. But there is no girl I like
better, none perhaps I like quite as well. Let me alone. There's no
sentiment between her and me so far. There won't be any--unless you
and other people begin to drive us toward each other. I don't want you
to do that. Don't interfere. Let us alone. We're having a good
time,--a perfectly natural, wholesome, happy time together."
[Illustration: "'I like her,' repeated Clive, Jr., a trifle
annoyed."]
"What is it leading to?" demanded his mother impatiently.
"To nothing except more good times. That's absolutely all. That's all
that good times lead to where any of the girls you approve of are
concerned--not to sentiment, not to love, merely to more good times.
Why on earth can't people understand that even if the girl happens to
be earning her own living?"
"People don't understand. That is the truth, and you can't alter it,
Clive. The girl's reputation will always suffer. And that's where you
ought to show yourself generous."
"What?"
"If you really like and respect her."
"How am I to show myself generous, as you put it?"
"By keeping away from her."
"Because people gossip?"
"Because," said his mother sharply, "they'll think the girl is your
mistress if you continue to decorate public resorts with her."
"Would--you think so, mother?"
"No. You happen to be my son. And you're truthful. Otherwise I'd think
so."
"You would?"
"Certainly."
"That's rotten," he said, slowly.
"Oh, Clive, don't be a fool. You can't do what you're doing without
arousing suspicion everywhere--from a village sewing-circle to the
smartest gathering on Manhattan Island! You know it."
"I have never thought about it."
"Then think of it now. Whether it's rotten, as you say, or not, it's
so. It's one of the folk-ways of the human species. And if it is,
merely saying it's rotten can't alter it."
Mrs. Bailey's car was at the door; Clive took the great sable coat
from the maid who brought it and slipped it over the handsome
afternoon gown that his handsome mother wore.
For a moment he stood, looking at her almost curiously--at the
brilliant black eyes, the clear smooth olive skin still youthful
enough to be attractive, at the red lips, mostly nature's hue, at the
cheeks where the delicate carmine flush was still mostly nature's.
He said: "You have so much, mother.... It seems strange you should not
be more generous to a girl you have never seen."
His handsome, capable, and experienced mother gazed at him out of
friendly and amused eyes from which delusion had long since fled. And
that is where she fell short, for delusion is the offspring of
imagination; and without imagination no intelligence is complete. She
said: "I can be generous with any woman except where my son concerns
himself with her. Where anybody else's son is involved I could be
generous to any girl, even--" she smiled her brilliant smile--"even
perhaps not too maliciously generous. But the situation in your case
doesn't appeal to me as humorous. Keep away from her, Clive; it's
easier than ultimately to run away from her."
CHAPTER IX
The course of irresponsible amusement which C. Bailey, Jr., continued
to pursue at intervals with the fair scion of the house--road-house--of
Greensleeve, did not run as smoothly as it might have, and was not
unmixed with carping reflections and sordid care on his part, and with
an increasing number of interruptions, admonitions, and warnings on
the part of his mother.
That pretty lady, flint-hardened in the igneous social lava-pot,
continued to hear disquieting tales of her son's doings. They came to
her right and left, from dance and card-table, opera-box and supper
party, tea and bazaar and fashionable reception.
One grim-visaged old harridan of whom Manhattan stood in fawning fear,
bluntly informed her that she'd better look out for her boy if she
didn't want to become a grandmother.
Which infuriated and terrified Mrs. Bailey and set her thinking with
all the implacable concentration of which she was capable.
So far in life she had accomplished whatever she set out to do.... And
of all things on earth she dreaded most to become a grandmother of any
description whatever.
But between Athalie and Clive, if there had been any doubts concerning
the propriety or expediency of their companionship neither he nor she
had, so far, expressed them.
Their comradeship, in fact, had now become an intimacy--the sort that
permits long silences without excuse or embarrassment on either side.
She continued to charm and surprise him; and to discover, daily, in
him new traits to admire in a character which perhaps he did not
really possess.
In this girl he seemed to find an infinite variety. Moods, impulsive
or deliberate, and capricious or logical, continued to stimulate his
interest in her every time they met. On no two days was she exactly
the same--or so he seemed to think. And yet her basic qualities were,
it appeared to him, characteristic and unvarying,--directness,
loyalty, generosity, freedom from ulterior motive and a gay confidence
in a world which, for the first time in her life, she had begun to
find unexpectedly exciting.
They had been one evening to a musical comedy which by some fortunate
chance was well written, well sung, and well done. And they were in
excellent spirits as they left the theatre and stood waiting for his
small limousine car, she in her pretty furs held close to her throat,
humming under her breath a refrain from the delightful finale, he
smoking a cigarette and watching the numbers being flashed for the
long line of carriages and motors which moved up continually through
the lamp-lit darkness.
"Athalie," he said, "suppose we side-step the Regina and try
Broadway. Are you in the humour for it?"
She laughed and her eyes sparkled in the electric glow: "Are you,
Clive?"
"Yes, I am. I feel very devilish."
"So do I,--devilishly hungry."
"That's fine. Where shall we go?"
"The Café Arabesque?... The name sounds exciting."
"All right--" as his car drew up and the gold-capped porter opened the
door;--so he directed his chauffeur to drive them to the Café
Arabesque.
"If you don't like it," he added to Athalie, drawing the fur robe over
her knees and his, "we can go somewhere else."
"That's very nice of you. I don't have to suffer for my mistakes."
"Nobody ever ought to suffer for mistakes because nobody would ever
make mistakes on purpose," he said, laughing.
"Such a delightful philosophy! Please remind me of it when I'm in
agony over something I'm sorry I did."
"I'm afraid you'll have to remind me too," he said, still laughing.
"Is it a bargain?"
"Certainly."
The car stopped; he sprang out and aided her to the icy sidewalk.
"I don't think I ever saw you as pretty as you are to-night," he
whispered, slipping his arm under hers.
"Are you really growing more beautiful or do I merely think so?"
"I don't know," she said, happily; "I'll tell you a secret, shall I?"
He inclined his ear toward her, and she said in a laughing whisper:
"Clive, I feel beautiful to-night. Do you know how it feels to feel
beautiful?"
"Not personally," he admitted; and they separated still laughing like
two children, the focus of sympathetic, amused, or envious glances
from the brilliantly dressed throng clustering at the two cloak rooms.
She came to him presently where he was waiting, and, instinctively the
groups around the doors made a lane for the fair young girl who came
forward with the ghost of a smile on her lips as though entirely
unconscious of herself and of everybody except the man who moved out
to meet her.
"It's true," he murmured; "you are the most beautiful thing in this
beauty-ridden town."
"You'll spoil me, Clive."
"Is that possible?"
"I don't know. Don't try. There is a great deal in me that has never
been disturbed, never been brought out. Maybe much of it is evil," she
added lightly.
He turned; she met his eyes half seriously, half mockingly, and they
laughed. But what she had said so lightly in jest remained for a few
moments in his mind to occupy and slightly trouble it.
From their table beside the bronze-railed gallery, they could overlook
the main floor where a wide lane for dancing had been cleared and
marked out with crimson-tasselled ropes of silk.
A noisy orchestra played imbecile dance music, and a number of male
and female imbeciles took advantage of it to exercise the only
portions of their anatomy in which any trace of intellect had ever
lodged.
Athalie, resting one dimpled elbow on the velvet cushioned rail,
watched the dancers for a while, then her unamused and almost
expressionless gaze swept the tables below with a leisurely absence of
interest which might have been mistaken for insolence--and envied as
such by a servile world which secretly adores it.
"Well, Lady Greensleeves?" he said, watching her.
"Some remarkable Poiret and Lucille gowns, Clive.... And a great deal
of paint." She remained a moment in the same attitude--leisurely
inspecting the throng below, then turned to him, her calm
preoccupation changing to a shyly engaging smile.
"Are you still of the same mind concerning my personal
attractiveness?"
"I have spoiled you!" he concluded, pretending chagrin.
"Is that spoiling me--to hear you say you approve of me?"
"Of course not, you dear girl! Nothing could ever spoil you."
She lifted her Clover Club, looking across the frosty glass at him;
and the usual rite was silently completed. They were hungry; her
appetite was always a natural and healthy one, and his sometimes
matched it, as happened that night.
"Now, this is wonderful," he said, lighting a cigarette between
courses and leaning forward, elbows on the cloth, and his hands
clasped under his chin; "a good show, a good dinner, and good company.
What surfeited monarch could ask more?"
"Why mention the company last, Clive?"
"I've certainly spoiled you," he said with a groan; "you've tasted
adulation; you prefer it to your dinner."
"The question is do you prefer my company to the dinner and the
show? Do you! If so why mention me last in the catalogue of your
blessings?"
"I always mention you last in my prayers--so that whoever listens will
more easily remember," he said gaily.
The laughter still made the dark blue eyes brilliant but they grew
more serious when she said: "You don't really ever pray for me,
Clive. Do you?"
"Yes. Why not?"
The smile faded in her eyes and in his.
"I didn't know you prayed at all," she remarked, looking down at her
wine glass.
"It's one of those things I happen to do," he said with a slight
shrug.
They mused for a while in silence, her mind pursuing its trend back to
childhood, his idly considering the subject of prayer and wondering
whether the habit had become too mechanical with him, or whether his
less selfish petitions might possibly carry to the Source of All
Things.
Then having drifted clear of this nebulous zone of thought, and
coffee having been served, they came back to earth and to each other
with slight smiles of recognition--delicate salutes acknowledging each
other's presence and paramount importance in a world which was going
very gaily.
They discussed the play; she hummed snatches of its melodies below her
breath at intervals, her dark blue eyes always fixed on him and her
ears listening to him alone. Particularly now; for his mood had
changed and he was drifting back toward something she had said earlier
in the evening--something about her own possible capacity for good and
evil. It was a question, only partly serious; and she responded in the
same vein:
"How should I know what capabilities I possess? Of course I have
capabilities. No doubt, dormant within me lies every besetting sin,
every human failing. Perhaps also the cardinal, corresponding, and
antidotic virtues to all of these."
"I suppose," he said, "every sin has its antithesis. It's like a chess
board--the human mind--with the black men ranged on one side and the
white on the other, ready to move, to advance, skirmish, threaten,
manoeuvre, attack, and check each other, and the intervening squares
represent the checkered battlefield of contending desires."
The simile striking her as original and clever, she made him a pretty
compliment. She was very young in her affections.
"If," she nodded, "a sin, represented by a black piece, dares to stir
or intrude or threaten, then there is always the better thought,
represented by a white piece, ready to block and check the black one.
Is that it?"
"Exactly," he said, secretly well pleased with himself. And as for
Athalie, she admired his elastic and eloquent imagination beyond
words.
"Do you know," she said, "you have never yet told me anything about
your business. Is it all right for me to ask, Clive?"
"Certainly. It's real estate--Bailey, Reeve, and Willis. Willis is
dead, Reeve out of it, and my father and I are the whole show."
"Reeve?" she repeated, interested.
"Yes, he lives in Paris, permanently. He has a son here, in the
banking business."
"Cecil Reeve?"
"Yes. Do you know him?"
"No. My sister Catharine does."
Clive seemed interested and curious: "Cecil Reeve and I were at
Harvard together. I haven't seen much of him since."
"What sort is he, Clive?"
"Nice--Oh, very nice. A good sport;--a good deal of a sport.... Which
sister did you say?"
"Catharine."
"That's the cunning little one with the baby stare and brown curls?"
"Yes."
There was a silence. Clive sat absently fidgeting with his glass, and
Athalie watched him. Presently without looking up he said: "Yes, Cecil
Reeve is a very decent sport.... Rather gay. Good-looking chap. Nice
sort.... But rather a sport, you know."
The girl nodded.
"Catharine mustn't believe all he says," he added with a laugh. "Cecil has
a way--I'm not knocking him, you understand--but a young--inexperienced
girl--might take him a little bit too seriously.... Of course your sister
wouldn't."
"No, I don't think so.... Are you that way, too?"
He raised his eyes: "Do you think I am, Athalie?"
"No.... But I can't help wondering--a little uneasily at times--how
you can find me as--as companionable as you say you do.... I can't
help wondering how long it will last."
"It will last as long as you do."
"But you are sure to find me out sooner or later, Clive."
"Find you out?"
"Yes--discover my limits, exhaust my capacity for entertaining you,
extract the last atom of amusement out of me. And--what then?"
"Athalie! What nonsense!"
"Is it?"
"Certainly it's nonsense. How can I possibly tire of such a girl as
you? I scarcely even know you yet. I don't begin to know you. Why you
are a perfectly unexplored, undiscovered girl to me, yet!"
"Am I?" she asked, laughing. "I supposed you had discovered about all
there is to me."
He shook his head, looking at her curiously perplexed: "Every time we
meet you are different. You always have interesting views on any
subject. You stimulate my imagination. How could I tire?
"Besides, somehow I am always aware of reserved and hidden forces in
you--of a character which I only partly know and admire--capabilities,
capacities of which I am ignorant except that, intuitively, I seem to
know they are part of you."
"Am I as complex as that to you?"
"Sometimes," he admitted. "You are just now for example. But usually
you are only a wonderfully interesting and charming girl who brings
out the best side of me and keeps me amused and happy every moment
that I am with you."
"There really is not much more to me than that," she said in a low
voice. "You sum me up--a gay source of amusement: nothing more."
"Athalie, you know you are more vital than that to me."
"No, I don't know it."
"You do! You know it in your own heart. You know that it is a
straight, clean, ardent friendship that inspires me and--" she looked
up, serious, and very quiet.
--"You know," he continued impulsively, "that it is not only your
beauty, your loveliness and grace and that inexplicable charm you seem
to radiate, that brings me to seek you every time that I have a moment
to do so.
"Why, if it were that alone, it would all have been merely a matter of
sentiment. Have I ever been sentimental with you?"
"No."
"Have I ever made love to you?"
She did not reply. Her eyes were fixed on her glass.
"Have I, Athalie?" he repeated.
"No, Clive," she said gently.
"Well then; is there not on my part a very deep, solidly founded, and
vital friendship for you? Is there not a--"
"Don't let's talk about it," she interrupted in a low voice. "You
always make me very happy; you say I please you--interest and amuse
you. That is enough--more than enough--more than I ever hoped or
asked--"
"I said you make me happy;--happier than I have ever been," he
explained with emphasis. "Do you suppose for a moment that your regard
for me is warmer, deeper, more enduring, than is mine for you? Do you,
Athalie?"
She lifted her eyes to his. But she had nothing more to say on the
subject.
However, he began to insist,--a little impatiently,--on a direct
answer. And finally she said:
"Clive, you came into a rather empty life when you came into mine.
Judge how completely you have filled it.... And what it would be if
you went out of it. Your own life has always been full. If I should
disappear from it--" she ceased.
The quiet, accentless, almost listless dignity of the words surprised
and impressed him for a moment; then the reaction came in a faint glow
through every vein and a sudden impulse to respond to her with an
assurance of devotion a little out of key with the somewhat stately
and reserved measure of their duet called friendship.
"You also fill my life," he said. "You give me what I never had--an
intimacy and an understanding that satisfies. Had I my way I would be
with you all the time. No other woman interests me as you do. There
is no other woman."
"Oh, Clive! And all the charming people you know--"
"I know many. None like you, Athalie."
"That is very sweet of you.... I'm trying to believe it.... I want
to.... There are many days to fill in when I am not with you. To fill
them with such a belief would be to shorten them.... I don't know. I
often wonder where you are; what you are doing; with what stately and
beautiful creature you are talking, laughing, walking, dancing."--She
shrugged her shoulders and gazed down at the dancers below. "The days
are very long, sometimes," she added, half to herself.
When again, calmly, she turned to him there was an odd expression on
his face, and the next second he reddened and shifted his gaze.
Neither spoke for a few moments.
Presently she began to draw on her gloves, but he continued staring
into space, not noticing her, and finally she bent forward and rested
her slim gloved fingers on his hand, lightly, interrogatively.
"Yes; all right," he muttered.
"I have to go to business in the morning," she pleaded. He turned
almost impatiently:
"If I had my way you wouldn't go to business at all."
"If I had my way I wouldn't either," she rejoined, smilingly. But his
youthful visage remained sober and flushed. And when they were seated
in the limousine and the fur rug enveloped them both, he said
abruptly:
"I'm getting tired of this business."
"What business, Clive?"
"Everything--the way you live--your inadequate quarters--your having
to work all day long in that stuffy office, day after day, year after
year!"
She said, surprised and perplexed: "But it can't be helped, Clive! I
have to work."
"Why?"
"What do you mean?"
"I mean--what good am I to you--what's the use of me, if I can't make
things easier for you?"
"The use of you? Did you think I ever had any idea of using you?"
"But I want you to."
"How?" she asked, still uneasily perplexed, her eyes fixed on him.
But he had no definite idea, no plan fixed, nothing further to say on
a subject that had so suddenly taken shape within his mind.
She asked him again for an explanation, but, receiving none, settled
back thoughtfully in her furs. Only once did he break the silence.
"You know," he said indifferently, "that row of houses, of which
yours is one, belongs to me. I mean to me, personally."
"No, I didn't know it."
"Well it does. It's my own investment.... I've reduced rents--pending
improvements."
She looked up at him.
"The rent of your apartment has been reduced fifty per cent.," he said
carelessly; "so your rent is now paid until the new term begins next
October."
"Clive! That is perfectly ridiculous!" she began, hotly; but he swung
around, silencing her:
"Are you criticising my business methods?" he demanded.
"But that is too silly--"
"Will you mind your business!" he exclaimed, turning and taking her by
both shoulders. She looked into his eyes, searching them in silence.
Then:
"You're such a dear," she sighed; "why do you want to do a thing like
that when my sisters and I can afford to pay the present rent. You are
always doing such things, Clive; you have simply covered my
dressing-table with silver; my bureau is full of pretty things, all
gifts from you; you've given me the loveliest furniture of my own, and
books and desk-set and--and everything. And now you are asking me to
live rent-free.... And what have I to offer you in return?"
"The happiness of being with you now and then."
"Oh, Clive! You know that isn't very much to offer you. You know that
our being together is far more to me than it is to you! I dare not
even consider what I'd do without you, now. You mould me, alter my
thoughts, make me such a delightfully different girl, take entire
charge and possession of me.... I don't want you to give me anything
more--do anything more for me.... When you first began to give me
beautiful things I didn't want to take them. Do you remember how
awkward and shy I was--how I blushed. But I always end by doing
everything you wish.... And it seems to give us both so much
pleasure--all you do for me.... But please don't ask me to live
without paying rent--"
The limousine drew up by the curb; Clive jumped out, aided Athalie to
descend; and started for the grilled door where a light glimmered.
"This is not the house!" exclaimed Athalie, stopping short. "Where are
you taking me, Clive?"
"Come on," he said, "I merely want to show you how I've had the new
apartment house built--"
"But--it's too late! What an odd idea, taking me to inspect a new
apartment house at two in the morning! Are you really serious?"
He nodded and rang. A sleepy night porter opened, recognised Clive,
and touched his hat.
"Take us to the top, Mike," he said.
"Have you the keys, sorr?"
"Yes."
They entered the cage and it shot up to the top floor.
"Wait for us, Mike."... And to Athalie: "This is Michael Daly who will
do anything you ask of him--won't you, Mike?"
"I will that, sorr," said the big Irishman, tipping his hat to
Athalie.
"But, Clive," she persisted, bewildered, still clinging to his arm, "I
don't understand why--"
"Little goose, hush!" he replied, subduing the excitement in his voice
and fitting the key into the door.
"One moment, Athalie," he added, "until I light up. Now!"
She entered the lighted hallway, walking on a soft green carpet, and
turned, obeying the guiding pressure of his arm, into a big square
room which sprang into brilliant illumination as he found the switch.
Green and gold were the hangings and prevailing colours; there were
rugs, wide, comfortable chairs and lounges, bookcases, a picture or
two in deep glowing colours, a baby-grand piano, and an open fire
loaded for business.
"Is it done in good taste, Athalie?" he asked.
"It is charming. Is it yours, Clive?"
He laughed, slipped his arm under hers and led her along the hallway,
opening door after door; and first she was invited to observe a very
modern and glistening bathroom, then a bedroom all done in grey and
rose with dainty white furniture and a white-bear rug beside the bed.
"Why this is a woman's room!" she exclaimed, puzzled.
He only laughed and drew her along the hall, showing her another
bedroom with twin beds, a maid's room, a big clothes press, and
finally, a completely furnished kitchen, very modern with its
porcelain baseboard and tiled walls.
"What do you think of all this, Athalie?" he insisted.
"Why it's exquisite, Clive. Whose is it?"
They walked back to the square living-room. He said, teasingly: "Do
you remember, the first time I saw you after those four years,--that
first evening when I came in to surprise you and found you sitting by
the radiator--in your nightie, Athalie?"
"Yes," she said, laughing and blushing as she always did when he
tormented her with that souvenir.
"And I said that you ought to have an open fire. And a cat. Didn't I?"
"Yes."
"There's your fire, Athalie;" he drew a match from his tiny flat gold
case, struck it, and lighted the nest of pine shavings under the
logs;--"and Michael has the cat when you want it."
He drew a big soft arm-chair to the mounting blaze. Athalie stood
motionless, staring at the flames, then with a sudden, nervous gesture
she sank down on the arm-chair and covered her face with her gloved
hands.
He stood waiting, happy and excited, and finally he went over and
touched her; and the girl caught his hand convulsively in both of hers
and looked up at him with wet eyes.
"How can I do this, Clive? How can I?" she whispered.
"Any brother would do as much for his sister--"
"Oh, Clive! You are different! You are more than that. You know you
are. How can I take all this? Will you tell me? How can I live
here--this way--"
"Your sisters will be here. You saw their room just now--"
"But what can I tell them? How can I explain? They know we cannot
afford such luxury as this?"
"Tell them the rent is the same."
"They won't believe it. They couldn't. They don't understand even now
how it is with you and me--that you are so dear and generous and kind
just because you are my friend--and no more than my friend.... Not
that they really believe--anything--unpleasant--of me--but--but--"
"What do you care--as long as it isn't so?" he said, coolly.
"I don't care. Except that it weakens my authority over them....
Catharine is very impulsive, and she dearly loves a good time--and she
is becoming sullen with me when I try to advise her or curb her....
And it's so with Doris, too.... I'd like to keep my influence.... But
if they ever really began to believe that between you and me there
was--more--than friendship, I--I don't know what they might feel free
to think--or do--"
"They're older than you."
"Yes. But I seem to have the authority,--or I did have."
They looked into the leaping flames; he threw open his fur coat and
seated himself on the padded arm of her chair.
"All I know is," he said, "that it gives me the deepest and most
enduring happiness to do things for you. When the architect planned
this house I had him design a place for you. Ultimately all the row of
old houses are to be torn down and replaced by modern apartments with
moderate rentals. So you will have to move anyway sooner or later. Why
not come here now?"
Half unconsciously she had rested her cheek against the fur lining of
his coat where it fell against his arm. He looked down at her, touched
her hair--a thing he had never thought of doing before.
"Why not come here, Athalie?" he said caressingly.
"I don't know. It would be heavenly. Do you want me to, Clive?"
"Yes. And I want you to begin to put away part of your salary, too.
You might as well begin, now. You will be free from the burden of
rent, free from--various burdens--"
"I--can't--let you--"
"I want to!"
"Why?"
"Because it gives me pleasure--"
"No; because you desire to give me pleasure! That is the reason!"
she exclaimed with partly restrained passion--"because you are
you--and there is nobody like you in all the world--in all the
world, Clive!--"
To her emotion his own flashed a quick, warm response. He looked down
at her, deeply touched, his pride gratified, his boyish vanity
satisfied. Always had the simplicity and candour of her quick and
ardent gratitude corroborated and satisfied whatever was in him of
youthful self-esteem. Everything about her seemed to minister to
it--her attention in public places was undisguisedly for him alone;
her beauty, her superb youth and health, the admiring envy of other
people--all these flattered him.
Why should he not find pleasure in giving to such a girl as
this?--giving without scruple--unscrupulous too, perhaps, concerning
the effect his generosity might have on a cynical world which looked
on out of wearied and incredulous eyes; unscrupulous, perhaps,
concerning the effect his too lavish kindness might have on a young
girl unaccustomed to men and the ways of men.
But there was no harm in him; he was very much self-assured of that.
He had been too carefully brought up--far too carefully reared. And
had people ventured to question him, and had they escaped alive his
righteous violence, they would have learned that there really was not
the remotest chance that his mother was in danger of becoming what she
most dreaded in all the world.
       
The fire burned lower; they sat watching it together, her flushed
cheek against the fur of his coat, his arm extended along the back of
the chair behind her.
"Well," he said, "this has been another happy evening."
She stirred in assent, and he felt the lightest possible pressure
against him.
"Are you contented, Athalie?"
"Yes."
After a moment he glanced at his watch. It was three o'clock. So he
rose, placed the screen over the fireplace, and then came back to
where she now stood, looking very intently at the opposite wall. And
he turned to see what interested her. But there seemed to be nothing
in particular just there.
"What are you staring at, little ghost-seer?" he asked, passing his
hand under her arm; and stepped back, surprised, as she freed herself
with a quick, nervous movement, looked at him, then averted her head.
"What is the matter, Athalie?" he inquired.
"Nothing.... Don't touch me, Clive."
"No, of course not.... But what in the world--"
"Nothing.... Don't ask me." Presently he saw her very slowly move her
head and look back at the empty corner of the room; and remain so,
motionless for a moment. Then she turned with a sigh, came quietly to
him; and he drew her hand through his arm.
"Of what were you thinking, Athalie?"
"Of nothing."
"Did you think you saw something over there?"
She was silent.
"What were you looking at?" he insisted.
"Nothing.... I don't care to talk just now--"
"Tell me, Athalie!"
"No.... No, I don't want to, Clive--"
"I wish to know!"
"I can't--there is nothing to tell you--" she laid one hand on his
coat, almost pleadingly, and looked up at him out of eyes so dark
that only the starry light in them betrayed that they were blue and
not velvet black.
"That same thing has happened before," he said, looking at her, deeply
perplexed. "Several times since I have known you the same expression
has come into your face--as though you were looking at something
which--"
"Please don't, Clive!--"
"--Which," he insisted, "I did not see.... Could not see!"
"Clive!"
He stared at her rather blankly: "Why don't you tell me?"
"I--can't!"
"Is there anything--"
"Don't! Don't!" she begged; but he went on, still staring at her:
"Is there any reason for you to--not to be frank with me? Is there,
Athalie?"
"No; no reason.... I'll tell you ... if you will understand. Must I
tell you?"
"Yes."
Her head fell; she stood plucking nervously at his fur coat for a
while in silence. Then:
"Clive, I--I see clearly."
"What?"
"I mean that I see a--a little more clearly than--some do. Do you
understand?"
"No."
She sighed, stood twisting her white-gloved fingers, looking away from
him.
"I am clairvoyant," she breathed.
"Athalie! You?"
She nodded.
For a second or two he stood silent in his astonishment; then, taking
her hand, he drew her around facing the light, and she looked up at
him in her lovely abashed way, yet so honestly, that anybody who could
recognise truth and candour, could never have mistaken such eyes as
hers.
"Who told you that you are clairvoyant?" he asked.
"My mother."
"Then--"
"It was not necessary for anybody to tell me that I saw--more
clearly--than other people.... Mother knew it.... She merely explained
and gave a name to this--this--whatever it is--this quality--this
ability to see clearly.... That is all, Clive."
He was evidently trying to comprehend and digest what she had said.
She watched him, saw surprise and incredulity in conflict with
uneasiness and with the belief he could not avoid from lips that were
not fashioned for lies, and from eyes never made to even look
untruths.
"I had never supposed there was such a thing as real clairvoyance," he
said at last.
She remained silent, her candid gaze on him.
"I believe that you believe it, of course."
She smiled, then sighed:
"There is no pleasure in it to me. I wish it were not so."
"But, if it is so, you ought to find it--interesting--"
"No."
"Why not? I should think you would!--if you can see--things--that
other people cannot."
"I don't care to see them."
"Why?"
"They--I see them so often--and I seldom know who they are--"
"They?"
"The--people--I see."
"Don't they ever speak to you?"
"Seldom."
"Could you find out who they are?"
"I don't know.... Yes, I think so;--if I made an effort."
"Don't you ever use any effort to evoke--"
"Oh, Clive! No! When I tell you I had rather not see so--so
clearly--"
"You dear girl!" he exclaimed, half smiling, half serious, "why should
it distress you?"
"It doesn't--except to talk about it."
"Let me ask one more question. May I?"
She nodded.
"Then--did you recognise whoever it was you saw a few moments ago?"
"Yes."
"Who was it, Athalie?"
"My mother."
CHAPTER X
Early in April C. Bailey, Jr., overdrew his account, was politely
notified of that oversight by the bank. He hunted about, casually, for
stray funds, but to his intense surprise discovered nothing
immediately available.
Which annoyed him, and he explained the situation to his father; who
demanded further and sordidly searching explanations concerning the
expenditure on his son's part of an income more than adequate for any
unmarried young man.
They undertook this interesting line of research together, but there
came a time in the proceedings when C. Bailey, Jr., betrayed violent
inclinations toward reticence, non-communication, and finally secrecy;
in fact he declined to proceed any further or to throw any more light
upon his reasons for not proceeding, which symptoms were
characteristic and perfectly familiar to his father.
"The trouble is," concluded Bailey, Sr., "you have been throwing away
your income on that Greensleeve girl! What is she--your private
property?"
"No."
The two men looked at each other, steadily enough. Bailey, Sr., said:
"If that's the case--why in the name of common sense do you spend so
much money on her?" Naïve logic on the part of Bailey, Sr., Clive
replied:
"I didn't suppose I was spending very much. I like her. I like her
better than any other girl. She is really wonderful, father. You won't
believe it if I say she is charming, well-bred, clever--"
"I believe that!"
--"And," continued Clive--"absolutely unselfish and non-mercenary."
"If she's all that, too, it certainly seems to pay her--materially
speaking."
"You don't understand," said his son patiently. "From the very
beginning of our friendship it has been very difficult for me to make
her accept anything--even when she was in actual need. Our friendship
is not on that basis. She doesn't care for me because of what I do
for her. It may surprise you to hear me--"
"My son, nothing surprises me any more, not even virtue and honesty.
This girl may be all you think her. Personally I never met any like
her, but I've read about them in sentimental fiction. No doubt there's
a basis for such popular heroines. There may have been such paragons.
There may be yet. Perhaps you've collided with one of these feminine
curiosities."
"I have."
"All right, Clive. Only, why linger longer in the side-show than the
price of admission warrants? The main tent awaits you. In more modern
metaphor; it's the same film every hour, every day, the same
orchestrion, the same environment. You've seen enough. There's nothing
more--if I clearly understand your immaculate intentions. Do I?"
"Yes," said Clive, reddening.
"All right; there's nothing more, then. It's time to retire. You've
had your amusement, and you've paid for it like a gentleman--very much
like a gentleman--rather exorbitantly. That's the way a gentleman
always pays. So now suppose you return to your own sort and coyly
reappear amid certain circles recently neglected, and which, at one
period of your career, you permitted yourself to embellish and adorn
with your own surpassing personality."
They both laughed; there had been, always, a very tolerant
understanding between them.
Then Clive's face grew graver.
"Father," he said, "I've tried remaining away. It doesn't do any good.
The longer I stay away from her, the more anxious I am to go back....
It's really friendship I tell you."
"You're not in love with her, are you, Clive?"
The son hesitated: "No!... No, I can't be. I'm very certain that I am
not."
"What would you do if you were?"
"But--"
"What would you do about it?"
"I don't know."
"Marry her?"
"I couldn't do that!" muttered Clive, startled. Then he remained
silent, his mind crowded with the component parts of that vague
sum-total which had so startled him at the idea of marrying Athalie
Greensleeve.
Partly his father's blunt question had jarred him, partly the idea of
marrying anybody at all. Also the mere idea of the storm such a
proceeding would raise in the world he inhabited, his mother being the
storm-centre, dispensing anathema, thunder, and lightning, appalled
him.
"What!"
"I couldn't do that," he repeated, gazing rather blankly at his
father.
