martyr, Belgium, still prone in the deathly 
trance awaiting her certain resurrection. 
The rising sun struck the tower where 
three score ancient bells poured from metal 
throats their heavenly summons to battle! 
The Hun heard it, tumbling, clawing, stran 
gling below in the hellish vapours of his own 
death-fog; and now, from the rear his sky- 
guns hurled shrapnel at the carillon in the 
belfry of Nivelle. 
Clouds possessed the tower soft, white, 
fleecy clouds rolling, unfolding, floating about 
the ancient buttresses and gargoyles. An iron 
hail rained on slate and parapet and resound 
ing bell-metal. But the bells pealed and pealed 
in clear-voiced beauty, and Clovis, the great 
iron giant, hung, scarcely sonorous under the 
shrapnel rain. 
Suddenly there were bayonets on the stairs 
the clatter of heavy feet alien faces on the 
threshold. Then a bomb flew, and the terrible 
crash cleared the stairs. 
Twice more the clatter came with the clank 
of bayonets and guttural cries; but both died 
out in the infernal roar of the grenades explod 
ing inside that stony spiral. And no more 
bayonets flickered on the stairs. 
The airman, frozen to a statue, listened. 
Again and again he thought he could hear 
bugles, but the roar from below blotted out 
the distant call. 
"Little bell-mistress !" 
She turned her head, her hands still striking 
the keyboard. He spoke through the confu 
sion of the place: 
"Sound the tocsin!" 
Then Clovis thundered from the belfry like 
LA BRABAN^ONNE" 
a great gun fired, booming out over the world. 
Around the iron colossus shrapnel swept in 
gusts; Clovis thundered on, annihilating all 
sound except his own tremendous voice, heed 
less of shell and bullet, disdainful of the hell's 
shambles below, where masked French infantry 
were already leaping the parapets of Nivelle 
Redoubt into the squirming masses below. 
The airman shouted at her through the 
tumult : 
"They murdered my brother. Did I tell 
you? They hacked him to slivers with their 
bayonets. I've settled the reckoning down in 
the gas there their own green gas, damn 
them! You don't understand what I say, do 
you? He was my brother " 
A frightful explosion blew in the oubliette; 
the room rattled and clattered with shrapnel. 
The airman swayed where he stood in the 
swirling smoke, lurched up against the stone 
coping, slid down to his knees. 
When his eyes opened the little bell-mistress 
was bending over him. 
"They got me," he gasped. All the front of 
his tunic was sopping red. 
"They said it meant the cross if I made 
good. . . . Are you hurt?" 
"Oh, no!" she whispered. "But you 
"Go on and play!" he whispered with a ter 
rible effort. 
"But you " 
"The Brabangonne ! Quick!" 
She went, whimpering. Standing before the 
keyboard she pulled on her wooden gloves and 
struck the keys. 
Out over the infernal uproar below pealed 
the bells ; the morning sky rang with the noble 
summons to all brave men. Once more the 
ancient tower trembled with the mighty out- 
crash of the battle hymn. 
With the last note she turned and looked 
down at him where he lay against the wpU. He 
opened his glazing eyes and tried to smile at 
her. 
"Bully," he whispered. "Could you recite 
the words to me just so I could hear them 
on my way West?" 
She left the keyboard, came and dropped 
on her knees beside him; and closing her eyes 
to check the tears sang in a low, tremulous, 
 
girlish voice, De Lonlay's words, to the battle 
anthem of revolution. 
"Bully," he sighed. And spoke no more on 
earth. 
But the little mistress of the bells did not 
know his soul had passed. 
And the French officer who came leaping up 
the stairs, pistol lifted, halted in astonishment 
to see a dead man lying beside a sack of 
bombs and a young girl on her knees beside 
him, weeping and tremblingly intoning "La 
Brabangonne." 
CHAPTER XXI 
THE GAEDENER 
A week later, toward noon, as usual, the 
two American muleteers, Smith and Glenn, 
sauntered over from their corral to the White 
Doe Tavern where, it being a meatless day, 
they ate largely of potato soup and of a 
tench, smoking hot. 
The tench had been caught that morning off 
the back doorstep, which was an ancient and 
mossy slab of limestone let into the coping of 
the river wall. 
Jean Courtray, the crippled inn-keeper, 
caught it. All that morning he had sat there 
in the sun on the river wall, half dozing, open 
ing his dim eyes at intervals to gaze at his 
painted quill afloat among the water weeds of 
the little river Lesse. At intervals, too, he 
turned his head with that peculiar movement 
of the old, and peered at his daughter, Mary- 
ette, and the Belgian gardener who were work 
ing among the potatoes in the garden. 
And at last he had hooked his fish and the 
emaciated young Belgian dropped his hoe and 
came over and released it from the hook where 
it lay flopping and quivering and glittering 
among the wild grasses on the river bank. And 
that was how Kid Glenn and Sticky Smith, 
American muleteers on duty at Saint Lesse, 
came to lunch on freshly caught tench at the 
Inn of the White Doe. 
After luncheon, agreeably satiated, they rose 
from the table in the little dining room and 
strolled out to the garden in the rear of the 
inn, their Mexican spurs clanking. Maryette 
heard them; they tipped their caps to her; 
she acknowledged their salute gravely and con 
tinued to cultivate her garden with a hoe, the 
blond, consumptive Belgian trundling a rickety 
cultivator at her heels. 
"Look, Stick," drawled Glenn. "Maryette's 
got her decoration on." 
From where they lounged by the river wall 
they could see the cross of the Legion pinned 
to the girl's blouse. 
Both muleteers had been present at the in 
vestment the day before, when a general officer 
arrived from Paris and the entire garrison of 
Sainte Lesse had been paraded an impressive 
total of three dozen men six gendarmes and 
a brigadier; one remount sub-lieutenant and 
twenty troopers ; a veterinary, two white Amer 
ican muleteers, and five American negro hos 
tlers from Baton Eouge. 
The girl had nearly died of shyness during 
the ceremony, had endured the accolade with 
crimson cheeks, had stammered a whispered 
response to the congratulations of neighbors 
who had gathered to see the little bell-mistress 
of Sainte Lesse honoured by the country which 
she had served in the belfry of Nivelle. 
As she came past Smith and Glenn, trailing 
her hoe, the latter now sufficiently proficient 
in French, said gaily: 
"Have you heard from Jack again, Mam- 
zelle Maryettef 
The girl blushed: 
 
"I hear from Djack by every mail," she 
said, with all the transparent honesty that 
characterized her. 
Smith grinned: 
"Just like that! Well, tell him from me 
to quit fooling away his time in a hospital 
and come and get you or somebody is going 
to steal you." 
The girl was very happy; she stood there 
in the September sunshine leaning on her hoe 
and gazing half shyly, half humorously down 
the river where a string of American mules 
was being watered. 
Mellow Ethiopian laughter sounded from the 
distance as the Baton Eouge negroes ex 
changed pleasantries in limited French with 
a couple of gendarmes on the bank above them. 
And there, in the sunshine of the little garden 
by the river, war and death seemed very far 
away. Only at intervals the veering breeze 
brought to Sainte Lesse the immense vibra 
tion of the cannonade; only at intervals the 
high sky-clatter of an airplane reminded the 
village that the front was only a little north 
of Nivelle, and that what had been Nivelle 
was not so very far away. 
"If you were my girl, Maryette," remarked 
Smith, "I'd die of worry in that hospital." 
"You might have reason to, Monsieur," re.- 
torted the girl demurely. "But you see it's 
Djack who is convalescing, not you." 
She had become accustomed to the ceaseless 
banter of Burley's two comrades a banter 
entirely American, and which at first she was 
unable to understand. But now all things 
American, including accent and odd, perverted 
humour, had become very dear to her. The 
clink-clank of the muleteer's big spurs always 
set her heart beating; the sight of an arriving 
convoy from the Channel port thrilled her, 
and to her the trample of mules, the shouts 
of foreign negroes, the drawling, broken French 
spoken by the white muleteers made heavenly 
real to her the dream which love had so sud 
denly invaded, and into which, as suddenly, 
strode Death, clutching at Love. 
She had beaten him off she had or God 
had routed Death, driven him from the dream. 
 
For it was a dream to her still, and she thought 
she could never be able to comprehend the 
magic reality of it, even when at last her 
man, "Djack," came back to prove the blessed 
miracle which held her in the magic of its 
thrall. 
"Who's the guy with the wheelbarrow?" in 
quired Sticky Smith, rolling a cigarette. 
"Karl, his name is," she answered; " a 
Belgian refugee." 
"He looks like a Hun to me," remarked 
Glenn, bluntly. 
"He has his papers," said the girl. 
Glenn shrugged. 
"With his little pink eyes of a pig and his 
whitish hair and eyebrows well, maybe they 
make em like that in Belgium." 
"Papers," added Smith, "can be swiped." 
The girl shook her head: 
"He's an invalid student from Ypres. He 
looks quite ill, I think." 
"He looks the lunger, all right. But Huns 
have it, too. What does he do wander about 
town at will?" 
"He works for us, monsieur. Your suspi 
cions are harsh. Karl is quite harmless, poor 
boy." 
"What does he do after hours ?" demanded 
Sticky Smith, watching the manoeuvres of the 
sickly blond youth and the wheelbarrow. 
"Monsieur Smith, if you knew how innocent 
is his pastime!" she exclaimed, laughing. "He 
collects and studies moths and butterflies. Is 
there, if you please, a mania more harmless in 
the world? . . . And now I must return to my 
work, messieurs." 
As the two muleteers strode clanking away 
toward the canal in the meadow, the blond 
youth turned his head and looked after them 
out of eyes which were naturally pale and 
small, and which, as he watched the two Amer 
icans, seemed to grow paler and smaller yet. 
That afternoon old Courtray, swathed in a 
shawl, sat on the mossy doorstep and fished 
among the water weeds of the river. The sun 
was low; work in the garden had ended. 
Maryette had gone up into her beflfry to 
play the sunset hymn on the noble old carillon. 
Through the sunset sky the lovely bell-notes 
 
floated far and wide, exquisitely chaste and 
aloof as the high-showering ecstasy of a sky 
lark. 
As always the little village looked upward 
and listened, pausing in its humble duties as 
long as their little bell-mistress remained iii 
her tower. 
After the hymn she played "Myn hart is vol 
yerlangen" and "Het Lied der Vlamingen," 
and ended with the delicate, bewitching little 
folk-song, "Myn Vryer," by Hasselt. 
Then in the red glow of the setting sun the 
girl laid aside her wooden gloves, rose from 
the ancient keyboard, wound up the drum, and, 
her duty done for the evening, came down out 
of the tower among the transparent evening 
shadows of the tree-lined village street. 
The sun hung over Nivelle hills, which had 
turned to amethyst. Sunbeams laced the little 
river in a red net through which old Cour- 
tray's quill stemmed the ripples. He still 
clutched his fishing pole, but his eyes were 
closed, his chin resting on his chest. 
Maryette came silently into the garden and 
looked at her father looked at the blond Karl 
sea-ted on the river wall beside the dozing 
angler. The blond youth had a box on his 
knees into which he was intently peering. 
The girl came to the river wall and seated 
herself at her father's feet. The Belgian refu 
gee student had already risen to attention, his 
heels together, but Maryette signed him to be 
seated again. 
"What have you found now, Karl?" she in 
quired in a cautiously modulated voice. 
"Ah, mademoiselle, fancy! I haff by chance 
with my cultivator among your potatoes already 
twenty pupae of the magnificent moth, Sphinx 
Atropos, upturned ! See ! Regard them, made 
moiselle! What lucky chance! What fortune 
for me, an entomologist, this wonderful sphinx 
moth to discover encased within its chrysalis I" 
The girl smiled at his enthusiasm: 
"But, Karl, those funny, smooth brown 
things which resemble little polished evergreen- 
cones are not rare in my garden. Often, when 
spading or hoeing among the potato vines, I 
uncover them." 
"Mademoiselle, the caterpillar which makes 
this chrysalis feeds by night on the leaves of 
 
the potato, and, when ready to transform, bur 
rows into the earth to become a chryalis or 
pupa, as we call it. That iss why mademoiselle 
has often disinterred the pupae of this largest 
and strangest of our native sphinx-moths." 
Maryette leaned over and looked into the 
wooden box, where lay the chrysalides. 
"What kind of moth do they make?" she 
asked. 
He blinked his small, pale eyes: 
"The Death's Head," he said, complacently. 
The girl recoiled involuntarily: 
"Oh!" she exclaimed under her breath, 
" that creature!" 
For everywhere in France the great moth, 
with its strange and ominous markings, is per 
fectly well known. To the superstitious it is 
a creature of evil omen in its fulvous, black 
and lead-coloured livery of death. For the 
broad, furry thorax bears a skull, and the big, 
mousy body the yellow ribs of a skeleton. 
Measuring often more than five inches across 
the expanded wings, its formidable size alone 
might be sufficient to inspire alarm, but in ad 
dition it possesses a horrid attribute unknown 
among other moths and butterflies; it can 
utter a cry a tiny shrill, shuddering com 
plaint. Small wonder, perhaps, that the peas 
ant holds it in horror this sleek, furry, pow 
erfully winged creature marked with skull and 
bones, which whirrs through the night and 
comes thudding against the window, and 
shrieks horridly when touched by a human 
hand. 
"So that is what turns into the Death's Head 
moth," said the girl in a low voice as though 
to herself. "I never knew it. I thought those 
things were legless cock-chafers when I dug 
them out of potato hills. Karl, why do you 
keep them?" 
"Ah, mademoiselle! To study them. To 
breed from them the moth. The Death's Head 
is magnificent." 
"God made it," admitted the girl with a 
faint shudder, "but I am afraid I could not 
love it. "When do they hatch out?" 
"It is time now. It is not like others of the 
sphinx family. Incubation requires but a few 
weeks. These are nearly ready to emerge, 
mademoiselle." 
 
"Oh. And then what do they do?" 
"They mate." 
She was silent. 
"The males seek the females," he said in his 
pedantic, monotonous voice. "And so ardent 
are the lovers that although there be no female 
moth within five, eight, perhaps ten miles, yet 
will her lover surely search through the night 
for her and find her." 
Maryette shuddered again in spite of her 
self. The thought of this creature marked 
with the emblems of death and possessed of 
ardour, too, was distasteful. 
"Amour macabre -what an unpleasant 
thought, Karl. I do not care for your Death's 
Head and for the history of their amours." 
She turned and gently laid her head on her 
father's knees. The young man regarded her 
with a pallid sneer. 
Addressing her back, still holding his box 
ful of pupae on his bony knees, he said with 
the sneer quite audible in his voice: 
"Your famous savant, Fabre, first inspired 
me to study tha sex habits of the Death's 
Head." 
She made no reply, her cheek resting on her 
father's knees. 
"It was because of his wonderful experi 
ments with the Great Peacock moth and with 
others of the genus that I have studied to 
acquaint myself concerning the amours of the 
Death's Head. And I have discovered that he 
will find the female even if she be miles and 
miles away" 
The man was grinning now in the dusk 
grinning like a skull; but the girl's back was 
still turned and she merely found something 
in his voice not quite agreeable. 
"I think," she said in a low, quiet voice, 
"that I have now heard sufficient about the 
Death's Head moth." 
"Ah have I offended mademoiselle? I ask 
a thousand pardons " 
Old Courtray awoke in the dusk. 
"My quill, Maryette," he muttered, " see if 
it floats yet?" 
The girl bent over the water and strained 
her eyes. Her father tested the line with shaky 
hands. There was no fish on the hook. 
"Voyons! The asticot also is gone. Some 
 
robber fish has been nibbling!" exclaimed the 
girl cheerfully, reeling in the line. "Father, 
one cannot fish and doze at the same time." 
"Eternal vigilance is the price of success in 
peace as well as in war," said Karl, the stu 
dent, as he aided Maryette to raise her father 
from the chair. 
"Vigilance," repeated the girl. "Yes, al 
ways now in France. Because always the 
enemy is listening." . . . Her strong young 
arm around her father, she traversed the gar 
den slowly toward the house. A pleasant 
odour came from the kitchen of the White Doe, 
where an old peasant woman was cooking. 
CHAPTER XXII 
 
That night she wrote to her lover at the 
great hospital in the south, where he lay slowly 
growing well: 
MY : 
Today has been very beautiful, made so for me 
by my thoughts of you and by a warm September 
sun which makes for human happiness, too. 
I am wearing my ribbon of the Legion. Ah, 
my Djack, it belongs more rightly to you, who would 
not let me go alone to Nivelle that dreadful day. 
Why do they not give you the cross ? They must be 
very stupid in Paris. 
All day my happy thoughts have been with you, 
my Djack. It all seems a blessed dream that we 
love each other. And I oh, how could I have been 
so ignorant, so silly, not to know it sooner than I did ! 
I don't know; I thought it was friendship. And 
that was so wonderful to me that I never dreamed 
any other miracle possible ! 
Allans, my Djack. Come and instruct me quickly, 
 
because my desire for further knowledge is very 
ardent. 
The news? Cher ami, there is little. Always 
the far thunder beyond Nivelle in ruins; sometimes 
a battle-plane high in the blue; a convoy of your 
beloved mules arriving from the coast; nothing more 
exciting. 
Monsieur Smeet and Monsieur Glenn inquire al 
ways concerning you. They are brave and kind; 
their odd jests amuse me. 
My father caught a tench in the Lesse this morn 
ing. 
My gardener, Karl, collected many unpleasant 
creatures while hoeing our potatoes. Poor lad, he 
seems unhealthy. I am glad I could offer him em 
ployment. 
My Djack, there could not possibly be any mis 
take about him, could there? His papers are en 
regie. He is what he pretends, a Belgian student 
from Ypres in distress and ill health, is he not? 
But how can you answer me, you who lie there all 
alone in a hospital at Nice? Also, I am ashamed of 
myself for doubting the unfortunate young man. I 
am too happy to doubt anybody, perhaps. 
And so good night, my Djack. Sleep sweetly, 
guarded by powerful angels. 
Thy devoted, 
MARYETTE. 
She had been writing in the deserted cafe. 
Now she took a candle and went slowly up- 
277. 
stairs. On the white plaster wall of her bed 
room was a Death's Head moth. 
The girl, startled for an instant, stood still; 
an unfeigned shiver of displeasure passed over 
her. Not that the Death's Head was an un 
familiar or terrifying sight to her; in late 
summer she usually saw one or two which had 
flown through some lighted window. 
But it was the amorous history of this crea 
ture which the student Karl had related that 
now repelled her. This night creature with 
the skull on its neck, once scarcely noticed, had 
now become a trifle repulsive. 
She went nearer, lifting the lighted candle. 
The thing crouched there with slanted wings. 
It was newly hatched, its sleek body still wet 
with the humors of incubation wet as a 
soaked mouse. Its abdomen, too, seemed enor 
mous, all swelled and distended with unfertil 
ized eggs. No, there could be no question con 
cerning the sex of the thing; this was a female, 
and her tumefied body was almost bursting 
with eggs. 
In startling design the yellow skull stood 
out; the ribs of the skeleton. Two tiny, fiery 
 
eyes glimmered at the base of the antennae 
two minute jewelled sparks of glowing, lambent 
fire. They seemed to be watching her, mali 
ciously askance. 
The very horrid part of it was that, if 
touched, the creature would cry out. The girl 
knew this, hesitated, looked at the open window 
through which it must have crawled, and sat 
down on her bed to consider the situation. 
"After all," she said to herself resolutely. 
"God made it. It is harmless. If God thought 
fit to paint one of his lesser creatures like a 
skeleton, perhaps it was to remind us that 
life is brief and that we should lose no time 
to live it nobly in His sight. ... I think that 
perhaps explains it." 
However, she did not undress. 
"I am quite foolish to be afraid of this 
poor moth. I repeat that I am foolish. Allez 
I am not afraid. I am no longer afraid. I 
I admire this handiwork of God." 
She sat looking at the creature, her hands 
lying clasped in her lap. 
"It's a very odd thing," she said to herself, 
"that a lover can find this creature even if he 
be miles and miles away. . . . Maybe he's on 
his way now " 
Instinctively she sprang up and closed her 
bedroom window. 
"No," she said, looking severely at the mo 
tionless moth, you shall have no visitors in 
my room. You may remain here; I shall not 
disturb you; and tomorrow you will go away 
of your own accord. But I cannot permit you 
to receive company 
A heavy fall on the floor above checked her. 
Breathless, listening, she crept to her door. 
"Karl!" she called. 
Listening again, she could hear distant and 
vaguely dreadful sounds from the gardener- 
student's room above. 
She was frightened but she went up. The 
youth had had a bad hemorrhage. She sat 
beside him late into the night. After his 
breathing grew quieter, sitting there in silence 
she could hear odd sounds, rustling, squeak 
ing sounds from the box of Death's Head chry- 
salids on the night table beside his bed. 
The pupas of the Death's Head were making 
merry in anticipation of the rapidly approach- 
 
ing change the Great Adventure of their lives 
the corning metamorphosis. 
The youth lay asleep now. As she extin 
guished the candle and stole from the room, all 
the pupae of the Death's Head began to squeak 
in the darkness. 
The student-gardener could do no more 
work for the present. He lay propped up in 
bed, pasty, scarlet lipped, and he seemed bald 
and lidless, so colourless were hair and eye 
lashes. 
"Can I do anything for you, Karl?" asked 
Maryette, coming in for a moment as usual in 
the intervals of her many duties. 
"The ink, if you would be so condescending 
and a pen," he said, watching her out of 
hollow, sallow eyes of watery blue. 
She fetched both from the cafe. 
She came again in another hour, knocking 
at his door, but he said rather sharply that 
he wished to sleep. 
Scarcely noticing the querulous tone, she 
departed. She had much to do besides her du 
ties in the belfry. Her father was an invalid 
who required constant care; there was only 
one servant, an old peasant woman who cooked. 
The Government required her father to keep 
open the "White Doe Tavern, and there was 
always a little business from the scanty garri 
son of Sainte Lesse, always a few meals to get, 
a few drinks to serve, and nobody now to do 
it except herself. 
Then, in the belfry she had duties other than 
playing, than practice. Always at night the 
clock-drum was to be wound. 
She had no assistant. The town maintained 
none, and her salary as Mistress of the Bells 
of Sainte Lesse did not permit her to engage 
anybody to help her. 
So she oiled and wound all the machinery 
herself, adjusted and cared for the clock, swept 
the keyboard clean, inspected and looked after 
the wires leading to the tiers of bells over 
head. 
Then there was work to do in the garden 
a few minutes snatched between other duties. 
And when night arrived at last she was rather 
tired quite weary on this night in particular, 
 
having managed to fulfill all the duties of the 
sick youth as well as her own. 
The night was warm and fragrant. She 
sat in the dark at her open window for a while, 
looking out into the north where, along the 
horizon, heat lightning seemed to play. But 
it was only the reflected flashes of the guns. 
"When the wind was right, she could hear 
them. 
She had even managed to write to her lover. 
Now, seated beside the open window, she was 
thinking of him. A dreamy, happy lethargy 
possessed her; she was on the first delicate 
verge of slumber, so close to it that all earthly 
sounds were dying out in her ears. Then, sud 
denly, she was awake, listening. 
A window had been opened in the room 
overhead. 
She went to the stars and called: 
"Karl !" 
"What?" came the impatient reply. 
"Are you ill!" 
"No. N-no, I thank you " His voice be 
came urbane with an apparent effort. "Thank 
you for inquiring " 
"I heard your window open she said. 
"Thank you. I am quite well. The air is 
mild and grateful. ... I thank mademoiselle 
for her solicitude." 
She returned to her room and lighted her 
candle. On the white plaster wall sat the 
Death's Head moth. 
She had not been in her room all day. She 
was astonished that the moth had not left. 
"Shall I have to put you out?" she thought 
dubiously. "Keally, I can not keep my window 
closed for fear of visitors for you, Madam 
Death ! I certainly shall be obliged to put you 
out." 
So she found a sheet of paper and a large 
glass tumbler. Over the moth she placed the 
tumbler, then slipped the sheet of paper under 
the glass between moth and wall. 
The thing cried and cried, beating at the 
glass with wings as powerful as a bird s, and 
the girl, startled and slightly repelled, placed 
the moth on her night table, imprisoned under 
the tumbler. 
For a while it fluttered and flapped and 
cried out in its strange, uncanny way, then 
 
settled on the sheet of paper, quivering its 
wings, both eyes like living coals. 
Seated on the bedside, Maryette looked at it, 
schooling herself to think of it kindly as one 
of God's creatures before she released it at 
her open window. 
And, as she sat there, something came whiz 
zing into the room through her window, cir 
cled around her at terrific speed with a hum 
ming, whispering whirr, then dropped with a 
solid thud on the night table beside the im 
prisoned female moth. 
It was the first suitor arrived from outer 
darkness a big, powerful Death's Head moth 
with eyes aglow, the yellow skull displayed in 
startling contrast on his velvet-black body. 
The girl watched him, fascinated. He scram 
bled over to the tumbler, tested it with heavy 
antennae; then, ardent and impatient, beat 
against the glass with muscular wings that 
clattered in the silence. 
But it was not the amorous fury of the- 
creature striking the tumbler with resounding 
wings, not the glowing eyes, the strong, clawed 
feet, the Death's Head staring from its fune- 
real black thorax that held the girl's attention. 
It was something else; something entirely dif 
ferent riveted her eyes on the creature. 
For the cigar-shaped body, instead of bear 
ing the naked ribs of a skeleton, was snow 
white. 
And now she began to understand. Some 
body had already caught the moth, had 
wrapped around its body a cylinder of white 
tissue paper tied it on with a fine, white 
silk thread. 
The moth was very still now, exploring the 
interstices between tumbler and table with 
heavy, pectinated antennae. 
Cautiously Maryette bent forward and 
dropped both hands on the moth. 
Instantly the creature cried out horribly; it 
was like a mouse between her shrinking fin 
gers; but she slipped the cylinder of tissue 
paper from its abdomen and released it with 
a shiver; and it darted and whizzed around the 
room, gyrating in whistling circles around her 
head until, unnerved, she struck at it again 
and again with empty hands, following, driv- 
 
ing it toward the open window, out of which 
it suddenly darted. 
But now there was another Death's Head in 
the room, a burly, headlong, infatuated male 
which drove headlong at the tumbler and clung 
to it, slipping, sliding, filling the room with 
a feathery tattoo of wings. 
It, also, had a snow-white body; and before 
she had seized the squeaking thing and had 
slipped the tissue wrapper from its body, an 
other Death's Head whirred through the win 
dow ; then another, then two ; then others. The 
room swarmed; they were crawling all over 
the tumbler, the table, the bed. The room 
was filled with the soft, velvety roar of whir 
ring wings beating on wall and ceiling and 
against the tumbler where Madam Death sat 
imprisoned, quivering her wings, her eyes two 
molten rubies, and the ghastly skull staring 
from her back. 
How Maryette ever brought herself to do it ; 
how she did it at last, she had no very clear 
idea. The touch of the slippery, mousy bodies 
was fearsomely repugnant to her; the very 
sight of the great, skull-bearing things began 
to sicken her physically. A dreadful, almost 
impalpable floss from their handled wings and 
bodies smeared her hands; the place vibrated 
with their tiny goblin cries. 
Somehow she managed to strip them of the 
tissue cylinders, drive them from where they 
crawled on ceiling, wall and sill into whistling 
flight. Amid a whirlwind of wings she fought 
them toward the open window; whizzing, flit 
ting, circling they sped in widening spirals to 
escape her blows, where she stood half blinded 
in the vortex of the ghostly maelstrom. 
One by one they darted through the open 
window out into the night; and w r hen the last 
spectral streak of grey had sped into outer 
darkness the girl slammed the windowpanes 
shut and leaned against the sill enervated, ex 
hausted, revolted. 
The room was misty with the microscopic 
dust from the creatures wings; on her palms 
and fingers were black stains and stains of 
livid orange; and across wall and ceiling 
streaks and smudges of rusty colour. 
She was still trembling when she washed the 
smears from her hands. Her fingers were 
 
still unsteady as she smoothed out each tiny 
sheet of tissue paper and laid it on her night 
table. Then, seated on the bed's edge beside 
the lighted candle, she began to read the mes 
sages written in ink on these frail, translucent 
tissue missives. 
Every bit of tissue bore a message ; the writ 
ing was microscopic, the script German, the 
language Flemish. Slowly, with infinite pains, 
the little bell-mistress of Sainte Lesse trans 
lated to herself each message as she deci 
phered it. 
She was trembling more than ever when she 
finished. Every trace of colour had fled from 
her cheeks. 
Then, as she sat there, struggling to keep 
her mind clear of the horror of the thing, 
striving to understand what was to be done, 
there came upon her window pane a sudden 
muffled drumming sound, and her frightened 
gaze fell upon a Death's Head moth outside, 
its eyes like coals, its misty wings beating 
furiously for admittance. And around its body 
was tied a cylinder of white tissue. 
But the girl needed no more evidence. The 
wretched youth in the room overhead had al 
ready sealed his own doom with any one of 
these tissue cylinders. Better for him if the 
hemorrhage had slain him. Now a firing squad 
must do that much for him. 
Yet, even still, the girl hesitated, almost 
incredulous, trying to comprehend the mon 
strous grotesquerie of the abominable plot. 
Intuition pointed to the truth; logic proved 
it; somewhere in the German trenches a com 
rade of this spy was awaiting these messages 
with a caged Death's Head female as the bait 
a living loadstone wearing the terrific em 
blems of death an unfailing magnet to draw 
the skull-bearing messengers for miles had it 
not been that a nearer magnet deflected them 
in their flight! 
That was it! That was what the miserable 
youth upstairs had not counted on. Chance 
had ruined him ; destiny had sent Madam Death 
into the room below him to draw, with her 
macabre charms, every ardent winged mes 
senger which he liberated from his bedroom 
window. 
The subtle effluvia permeating the night air 
 
for miles around might have guided these mes 
sengers into the German trenches had not a 
nearer and more imperious perfume annihi 
lated it. Headlong, amorous, impatient they 
had whirled toward the embraces of Madam 
Death; the nearer and more powerful perfume 
had drawn the half-maddened, half-drugged 
messengers. The spy in the room upstairs, 
like many Germans, had reasoned wrongly on 
sound premises. His logic had broken down, 
not his amazing scientific foundation. His 
theory was correct; his application stupid. 
And now this young man was about to die. 
Maryette understood that. She comprehended 
that his death was necessary; that it was the 
unavoidable sequence of what he had at 
tempted to do. Trapped rats must be drowned ; 
vermin exterminated by easiest and quickest 
methods; spies who betray one's native land 
pass naturally the same route. 
But this thing, this grotesque, incredible, ter 
rible attempt to engraft treachery on one of 
nature's most amazing laws this secret, cun 
ning Teutonic reasoning, this scientific scoun- 
drelism, this criminal enterprise based on pa- 
tient, plodding and German efficiency, still be 
wildered the girl. 
And yet she vaguely realized how science had 
been already prostituted to Prussian malig 
nancy and fury; she had heard of flame jets, 
of tear-bombs, of bombs containing deadly 
germs; she herself had beheld the poison gas 
rolling back into the trenches at Nivelle under 
the town tower. Dimly she began to under 
stand that the Hun, in his cunning savagery, 
had tricked, betrayed and polluted civilization 
itself into lending him her own secrets with 
which she was ultimately to be destroyed. 
The very process of human thinking had 
been imitated by these monkeys of Europe 
apes with the ferocity of hogs and no souls, 
none nothing to lift them inside the pale 
where dwells the human race. 
There came a rapping on the cafe door. 
The girl rose wearily; an immense weight 
seemed to crush her shoulders so that her 
knees had become unsteady. 
She opened the cafe door; it was Sticky 
Smith, come for his nightcap before turn 
ing in. 
 
"The man upstairs is a German spy," she 
said listlessly. "Had you not better go over 
and get a gendarme?" 
"Who's a spy? That Dutch shrimp you had 
in your garden?" 
"Yes." 
"Where is he?" demanded the muleteer with 
an oath. 
She placed her lighted candle on the bar. 
"Wait," she said. "Bead these first we 
must be quite certain about what we do." 
She laid the squares of tissue paper out on 
the bar. 
"Do you read Flemish?" she whispered. 
"No, ma am " 
"Then I will translate into French for you. 
And first of all I must tell you how I came to 
possess these little letters written upon tissue. 
Please listen attentively." 
He rested his palm on the butt of his dan 
gling automatic. 
"Go on," he said. 
She told him the circumstances. 
As she commenced to translate the tissue 
paper messages in a low, tremulous voice, the 
sound of a door being closed and locked in 
the room overhead silenced her. 
The next instant she had stepped out to the 
stairs and called: 
"Karl!" 
There was no reply. Smith came out to the 
