There is no hope in opposing you. You are that kind of man. I have
learned that."

She touched the orchid to her chin meditatively. "It surprised me," she
added. "I have not been accustomed to authority like yours. I am my own
mistress, and I supposed I was accountable to myself alone. But--" she
lifted her eyes, "it appears that I am accountable to you. And the
realization does not seem to anger me very deeply."

He looked away: "I do not try to control you, Karen," he said in a low
voice.

"You have done so whether or not you have tried. I don't know what has
happened to me. Do you?"

"Nothing," he said, forcing a laugh. "Except you are learning that the
greatest pleasure of friendship is a confidence in it which nothing can
disturb."

"Confidence in friendship--yes. But confidence in you!--that ended in
our stateroom. Without confidence I thought friendship impossible....
And here I am asking you not to go away--because I--shall miss you. Will
you tell me what is the matter with a girl who has no confidence in a
man and who desires his companionship as I do yours?" Her cheeks
flushed, but her eyes were steady, bright, and intelligent: "Am I going
to fall in love with you, Kervyn?"

He laughed mirthlessly: "No, not if you can reason with yourself about
it," he said. "It merely means that you are the finest, most honest,
most fearless woman I ever knew, capable of the most splendid
friendship, not afraid to show it. That is all it means, Karen. And I am
deeply, humbly grateful.... And very miserable.... Because----"

The entrance of Frau Bergner with the breakfast tray checked him. They
both turned toward the long oak table.

Fortunately the culinary school where the housekeeper had acquired her
proficiency was not German. She had learned her art in Alsace.

So the coffee was fragrant and the omelette a dream; and there were
grapes from the kitchen arbour and ham from a larder never lacking the
succulent by-products of the sanglier of the Ardennes.

Frau Bergner took his letters and telegram, promising that Fritzl should
find somebody with a bicycle at Trois Fontaines to carry the other note
to Lesse Forest.

She hovered over them while they ate. The breakfast was a silent one.

Afterward Karen wrote a number of notes addressed to her modiste in
Berlin and to various people who might, in her present emergency, supply
her with something resembling a wardrobe.

Guild had taken his pipe out to the fountain, where she could see him
through the window, seated on the coping of the pool, smoking and
tracing circles in the gravel with a broken twig.

She hurried her notes, called the housekeeper to take them, then,
without taking hat or gloves, she went out into the sunshine. The habit,
so easily acquired, of being with Guild was becoming a necessity, and
neither to herself nor to him had it yet occurred to her to pretend
anything different.

There was, in her, an inherent candour, which unqualified, perhaps
unsoftened by coquetry, surprises more than it attracts a man.

But its very honesty is its undoing; it fails to hold the complex
masculine mind; its attractiveness is not permanent. For the average man
requires the subtlety of charm to stir him to sentiment; and charm means
uncertainty; and uncertainty, effort.

No effortless conquest means more to a man than friendship. And
friendship is nothing new to a man.

But it was new to Karen; she had opened her mind to it; she was opening
her heart to it, curious concerning it, interested as she had never
before been, sincere about it--sincere with herself.

Never before had the girl cared for a man more than she had cared about
any woman. The women she had known had not been inferior in intelligence
to the men she knew. And a normal and wholesome mind and heart harbour
little sentiment when the mind is busy and the body sound.

But since she had known this man she knew also that he had appealed to
something more than her intelligence.

Vaguely realizing this in the crisis threatened by his violence, she had
warned him that he was violating something more than friendship.

Then the episode had passed and become only an unquiet memory; but the
desire for his companionship had not passed; it increased, strengthening
itself with every hour in his company, withstanding self-analysis,
self-reproach, defying resentment, mocking her efforts to stimulate
every tradition of pride--even pride itself.

Deeply conscious of the power his personality exercised over her,
perplexed, even bewildered at herself, she had not only endured the
intimacy of contact with him, but in her heart she accepted it, cared
for it, was conscious of relaxation and contentment except for the
constant array of traditional indictments which her conscience was
busily and automatically finding against her.

She could not comprehend why what he had done had not annihilated her
interest in him; why she, even with effort, could find in her mind no
abiding anger, no scorn, no contempt for him or for what he had done.

And because she was intelligent and healthy, in her perplexity she had
tried to reason--had found nothing to account for her state of mind
unless love could account for it--and knowing nothing of love, had
admitted the possibility to herself and even to him. Intelligence,
candour, ignorance of deeper emotion--coupled with the normal mental and
physical innocence of a young girl--this was the character she had been
born with and which had naturally and logically developed through
nineteen years of mental and bodily cultivation. The girl was most
fatally equipped for an awakening.

                               * * * * *

He stood up when she appeared, knocked out his pipe and advanced to meet
her. He had been doing a lot of thinking. And he had concluded to talk
very frankly to her about her friendship with him--frankly, kindly,
discouraging gaily any mistaken notion she might harbour that there
could be any room, any reason, any fitness for a deeper sentiment in
this friendship--anything more significant than the delightful and frank
affection now existing between them.

"Shall we walk in the forest, Karen?" he said.

"Yes, please."

So they turned into a sentier which curved away through a fern-set
rabbit warren, over a wooden footbridge, and then led them on through
alternate flecks of sunshine and shadow through a noble forest of beech
and oak.

The green and brown mast lay thick under-foot, premature harvest of
windfalls--perhaps the prodigality of those reckless sylvan
spendthrifts, the squirrels and jays.

Here and there a cock-pheasant ran through a spinny at their approach;
rabbits scuttled into wastes of bracken as yet uncurled and unblemished
by a frost; distant crashes and a dull galloping signalled the unseen
flight of deer. Now and then the dark disturbance of the forest floor
betrayed where the horny, furry snouts of boar had left furrows of fresh
black earth amid the acorns.

They came upon the stream again--or perhaps a different little brook,
splashing and curling amid its ferns and green, drenched mosses.
Stepping stones crossed it; Karen passed lightly, surely, on little
flying feet, and stood laughing on the other side as he paused to poke
about in the pool in hopes of starting a trout into arrowy flight.

When he crossed she had seated herself under a fir, the branches of
which swept the ground around her; and so utterly had she vanished that
she was obliged to call him before he could discover her whereabouts.

"Under this green tent," she said, "if I had a bed, and some books, and
clothes, and food, and my maid and--a piano, I could live most happily
all summer." She laughed, looked at him--"if I had all these
and--you," she added.

"Why drag me into such a perfect paradise?"

"I shouldn't drag you," she said gravely. "I should merely tell you
where I lived."

"I didn't mean it that way."

"You might have, with reason. I have demanded a great deal of your
time."

"I have demanded all of yours!" he retorted, lightly.

"Not more than I was content to give.... It seems all a dream to
me--which began when you rang the bell at Hyacinth Villa and roused me
from my sleep. And," she added with a gay flash of malice, "you have
kept me awake ever since."

"And you, me!"

"Not a bit! You slept in the railway car."

"So did you."

"In your arms, practically...." She looked up at him curiously: "What
did you think of me, Kervyn?"

"I thought you were an exceedingly tired girl."

"I was. Is that all you thought about it?"

"You know," he said, laughing, "when a man is asleep he doesn't do much
thinking."

"What did you think afterward?"

"About what?"

"About my sleeping against your shoulder?"

"Nothing," he said carelessly.

"Were you quite--indifferent?"

He didn't know how to answer.

"I was not," she said. "I was contented, and I thought continually about
our friendship--except when what I was doing made me uneasy about--what
I was doing.... Isn't it curious that a girl could do a thing like that
and feel comfortable except when she remembered that a girl doesn't
usually do a thing like that?"

He began to laugh, and she laughed, too.

She said: "Always my inclination has been, from a child, to explain
things to myself. But I can't explain you, yet. You are very different,
you know."

"Not a bit----"

"Yes, please. I've found that out.... Tell me, do you really mean to go
today?"

"Yes, Karen, I do."

"Couldn't you stay?"

"I really couldn't."

"Why, please?"

"I must be about my business."

"Enlistment?"

"Yes."

"In the Guides," she said, as though to herself.

He nodded.

"The Guides," she repeated, looking rather vacantly at a sun spot that
waxed and waned on the dry carpet of fir-needles at her feet. "I have
seen them. They are odd, with their furry headgear and their green
jackets and boots and cherry-red breeches.... I have danced with
officers of the Guides in Brussels.... I never thought that my first man
friend would be an officer in the Guides."

"I never thought my best friend among women would be the first woman I
ever robbed," he said rather grimly.

"Oh, but you haven't done it yet! And I don't see how you propose to do
it."

He looked up, forcing a smile:

"Don't you?"

"Not if you are going away. How can you? The only way I can see is for
you to stay at Quellenheim in hopes that I might forget to lock my door
some night. You know," she said, almost wistfully, "I might forget--if
you remained long enough."

He shook his head.

"Then you have given it up?"

"No."

"But I don't see!"

She was so pretty in her perplexity, so utterly without art in her
frankness and curiosity that the impulse to mystify and torment her
possessed him.

"Will you bet that I shall not have those papers in my possession within
ten minutes?" he asked.

"How can you?"

"I can. And I shall."

She gazed at him incredulously, then suddenly her cheeks lost their
colour and she stood up under the fir-tree.

"Must I take them or will you give them up, Karen?" he asked, laughing,
as he rose.

She took a step backward, away from him. The tree-trunk checked her.

"You know I can't give them to you," she said unsteadily. "It would be
dishonourable."

"Am I to take them?"

"Are you going to?"

"Do you mean to say that rather than surrender them you would endure
such violence as that?"

"I promised.... Are you going to--to hurt me, Kervyn?" she stammered.

"I'll try not to."

She stood there, breathing fast, white, defiant.

"You'll have to surrender," he said. "You might as well. It's an
honourable capitulation in the presence of superior force."

"No."

"You refuse?"

"Yes, please."

He said: "Very well, then," with an alarming frown.

"Kervyn----"

"What?"

"If you tear my gown I--I shall have to go to bed."

"I'm not going to touch your gown," he said. "I'm going to charm those
papers so they'll leave their hiding place and fly into my pocket. Watch
me very attentively, Karen!" And he tucked up his cuffs and made a few
short passes in the air. Then he smiled at her.

"Kervyn! I thought you meant to take them. Do you know you really did
frighten me?"

"I have got them," he said.

The colour came back into her cheeks; she smiled at him in a breathless
way.

"You did frighten me," she said. She came slowly back and seated herself
on the carpet of fir-needles. He sat down beside her.

"Karen, dear," he said, "you are a brick and I'm a brute. I took your
papers this morning. I had to, dear."

And he drew them from his breast pocket and showed them to her.

The girl sat in wide-eyed amazement for a moment. Suddenly her face
flushed and the tears flashed in her eyes.

"You have ridiculed me!" she said. "You have treated me like a child!"

"Karen----"

"I will not listen! I shall never listen to you again! You have played
with me, hurt me, humiliated me. You have ruled and overruled me! You
gained my friendship and treated it--and me--without ceremony. And I let
you! I must have been mad----"

Her mouth quivered; she clenched her hands, gazing at him through eyes
that glimmered wet:

"How could you do it? I was honest with you; I had had no experience
with a man I cared for. You knew it. You let me care for you until I
didn't understand--until the sincerity and force of what I felt for you
bewildered me!

"And now--and now I am--unhappy--unhappy--miserable, ashamed--" She
caught her breath, scarcely able to see him through her tears--no longer
able to control the quivering lip.

She rose swiftly, encountered something--his arm--felt herself drawn
resistlessly into his embrace.

"Forgive me, Karen," he said. "I did not realize--what was happening
to--us both."

She rested her forehead on his shoulder for a moment.

"Can you forgive me, Karen?"

"Yes."

"You know I truly care for you?"

"Yes."

Scarcely knowing what he was doing, he bent to touch her forehead with
his lips, and she lifted her face at the same moment. His kiss fell on
her mouth, and she responded. At the same instant her girlhood ended
forever--vanished on her lips in a little sigh.

Dazed, silenced, a trifle faint, she turned from him blindly.

"Please," she whispered, in the ghost of a voice; and he released her.

For a few moments she stood resting against the fir-tree, her left arm
across her eyes, frightened, motionless.

The forest was very still around her, as though every leaf were
listening.




                              CHAPTER XVII

                           HER FIRST CAMPAIGN


"Karen," she heard him say, in a constrained and unfamiliar voice, "I
love you."

If he thought he was still speaking to the same girl whose soft and
fragrant lips he had touched a moment before, he was mistaken. He spoke
too late. The girl had vanished with her girlhood.

And now it was with a very different sort of being he had to do--with a
woman whose mind had quickened under shock; whose latent emotions had
been made conscious; whose spirit, awakened by a crisis, was already
armoured and in arms. Aroused, alert, every instinct awake, proud of a
new and radiant knowledge, new motives germinated, new impulses
possessed her; a new and delicious wisdom thrilled her. She was ready,
and she realized it.

"Karen?"

She heard him perfectly. Deep within her something was laughing. There
was no hurry. She knew it.

"Karen?" he said, very humbly.

Conscious of the change within herself, still a little surprised and
excited by it, and by a vaguely exquisite sensation of impending
adventure, of perils charmingly indefinite, of the newness of it all,
deep, deep within her she felt the certainty, the tranquillity, the
sweet intoxication of power. Power! She knew she was using it now. She
knew she was exercising it on this man. And, for a second, the grasp of
the new weapon almost frightened her. For it was her first campaign. And
she had not yet reconnoitered the adversary or fully developed his
strength and position. Man, as an adversary, was still unknown to her.

"Karen?" he ventured, rather anxiously.

Instantly she lost a large portion of her fear of him. Oh! but she had a
long, long reckoning to settle yet with him. She cast a swift glance
backward, but already her girlhood was gone--gone with its simplicity,
its quaint perplexities, its dear ignorance, its pathos, its
helplessness before experience, its naïveté, its faith.

It had gone, slipped away, exhaled in a deep, unconscious sigh. And
suddenly she flushed hotly, remembering his lips. Truly, truly there was
a long reckoning still to come.... But there seemed to be no hurry.

Still leaning against the tree, she fumbled for her handkerchief,
touched her eyes with it leisurely, then, still turning her back to him,
she lifted her hands to her hair.

For a first campaign she was doing very well.

Her thick, burnished hair was not in any desperate disorder, but she
touched it here and there, patted, tucked, caressed it with light, swift
fingers, delicately precise as the exploring antennæ of a butterfly.

"Give me my answer, Karen," he urged, in a low voice, stepping nearer.
Instantly she moved lightly aside to avoid him--just a short step--her
back still turned, her hands framing her bright hair. Presently she
looked around with a slight laugh, which seemed to say: "Have you
noticed my new wings? If I choose to use them, I become unattainable.
Take care, my friend!"

The expression of her face checked him; her eyes were still starry from
tears. The dewy loveliness of them, the soft shyness born of knowledge,
the new charm of her left him silent and surprised. He had supposed that
she was rather low in her mind. Also he became aware that something
about her familiar to him had gone, that he was confronted by something
in her hitherto unsuspected and undetected--something subtly experienced
and unexpectedly mature. But that a new intelligence, made radiant by
the consciousness of power, had suddenly developed and enveloped this
young girl, and was now confronting him he did not comprehend at first.

And yet, in her attitude, in the poise of the small head, in the slight
laugh parting her lips, in every line of her supple figure, every
contour, every movement, he was aware of a surety, a self-confidence, a
sort of serene authority utterly unfamiliar to him in her personality.

Gone was the wistfulness, the simplicity, the indecision of immaturity,
the almost primitive candour that knows no art. Here was complexity
looking out of eyes he scarcely knew, baffling him with a beauty
indescribable.

"Karen--dear?" he said unsteadily, "have you nothing to say to me?"

There was laughter and curiosity in her eyes, and a hint of mockery.

"Yes," she said, "I have a great deal to say to you. In the first place
we must not be silly any more----"

"Silly!"

She seemed surprised at his emphatic interruption.

"Yes, silly," she repeated serenely; "foolish, inconsequential. I admit
I made a goose of myself, but that is no excuse for you to do it, too.
You are older and more experienced and so much wiser----"

"Karen!"

"Yes?" she said innocently.

"What has happened to you?" he asked, disturbed and bewildered.

She opened her eyes at that:

"Nothing has happened, has it? Is my gown torn?"--bending over to survey
her skirt and waist--"Oh, I forgot that the famous robbery occurred
without violence----"

He reddened: "I don't understand you, Karen. Why do you fence this way
with me? Why do you speak this way to me? What has suddenly changed
you--totally altered you--altered your attitude toward me, your point of
view, your disposition--your very character apparently----"

"My character?" she repeated with a gay little laugh which seemed to him
irresponsible, and confused him exceedingly.

"No," he said, troubled, "that couldn't change so suddenly. But I never
before saw this side of your character. I didn't know it existed--never
supposed--dreamed----"

"Speaking of dreams," she interrupted with calm irrelevance, "I never
told you that I finally did cross that frontier. Shall I tell you about
it while we are walking back?"

"If you choose," he said, almost sullenly.

"Don't you care to hear about my dream? As I made a pillow of you during
the process, I really think you are entitled to hear about it--" She
broke off with a quick, involuntary laugh: "Why do you look hurt,
Kervyn?"

At that he became serious to the verge of gloom.

"Come," she said sweetly, slipping her hand through his arm, "I want to
tell you how I crossed that wonderful frontier----"

"I told you," he said gravely, "that I love you. Am I not entitled to an
answer?"

"Entitled, Kervyn? I don't know to how many things you are en-titled.
All I know is that you are titled--several times--aren't you?"

He reddened and bit his lip.

"Because," she went on gaily, "you served your time in the Guides. That
is a very natural deduction, isn't it?"

He said nothing; he was very seriously upset. His stern mouth and
darkened face betrayed it. And deep in Karen's heart the little imps of
laughter danced to its mischievous beating.

After they had walked through the forest for a while in silence, she
halted and withdrew her arm.

"You know," she said, "we are not nearly well enough acquainted for you
to be moody and unamiable."

"I did not mean to be either," he said. "What is it that has come
between us, Karen?"

"Why, nothing I hope," she said fervently.

"I hope so, too.... You have been different since--" He hesitated, and
she turned her head carelessly and looked back at the little brook they
had crossed. When her blush had cooled she resumed her leisurely walk
and glanced up at him inquiringly:

"Since when have you thought me different?"

"Since we--kissed----"

"Please, Kervyn! Not we. I think it was you who performed that very
childish rite."

"Is that the way you regarded it?"

"Didn't you?"

"No."

"You didn't take it seriously!" she exclaimed with an enchanting laugh.
"Did you really? I'm so dreadfully sorry!"

The dark flush on his face frightened her. It was her first campaign and
she was easily alarmed. But she was wise enough to say nothing.

"Yes," he said with an effort, "I did take it very seriously. And I took
you seriously, too. I don't understand your new attitude toward
me--toward life itself. Until today I had never seen any lightness in
you, any mockery----"

"Lightness? You saw plenty in me. I was not very difficult, was I?--on
the train? Not very reticent about my views concerning friendship and my
fears concerning--love. Why should you be surprised at the frivolity of
such a girl? It has taken so many years for me to learn to laugh.
Nineteen, I think. Won't you let me laugh a little, now that I know
how?"

"Have I any influence at all with you?" he asked. "I thought I had."

"I thought so, too," she mused, innocently.

"What has happened to destroy it?"

"Why, nothing, Kervyn!" opening her eyes.

"Does any of my influence with you remain?"

"Loads of it. Oceans! Bushels!"

"Do you care for me?"

"Of course! The silly question."

"Seriously?"

"Yes, but I don't wish to weep because I care for you."

"Could you learn to love me?"

"Learn? I don't know," she mused aloud, apparently much interested in
the novelty of the suggestion. "I learn some things easily; mathematics
I never could learn. Why are you scowling, Kervyn?"

"Could you ever love me?" he persisted, doggedly.

"I don't know. Do you desire to pay your court to me?"

"I--yes----"

"You appear to be uncertain. It seems to me that a man ought to know
whether or not he desires to pay his addresses to a girl."

"Can't you be serious, Karen!"

"Indeed I can. You ought to know it, too. I was serious enough over you,
once. I followed you about so faithfully and persistently that even when
you took a nap I did it too----"

"Karen, do you love me?"

"I don't know."

"Will you try?"

"I'm always willing to try anything--once."

"Then suppose you try marrying me, once!" he said, bluntly.

"But oughtn't a girl to be in love before she tries that? Besides,
before I am quite free to converse with you on that subject I must
converse with someone else."

"What!"

"Had you forgotten?"

"Do you mean the----"

"Yes," she said hastily--"you do remember. That is a prior
engagement."

"Engagement!"

"An engagement to converse on the subject of engagements. I told you
about it--in the days of my communicative innocence."

He was patient because he had to be.

"After you have made your answer clear to him, may I ask you again?"

"Ask me what?"

"To marry me."

"Wouldn't that permission depend upon what answer I may give him?"

"Good Heavens!" he exclaimed, "is there any doubt about your answer to
him?"

She lifted her eyebrows: "You are entirely too confident. Must I first
ask your permission to fulfill my obligations and then accomplish them
in a manner that suits your views? It sounds a little like dictation,
Kervyn."

He walked beside her, cogitating in gloom and silence. Was this the girl
he had known? Was this the same ungrateful and capricious creature upon
whom he had bestowed his protection, his personal interest, his anxious
thoughts?

That he had fallen in love with her had surprised him, but it did not
apparently surprise her. Had she instinctively foreseen what was going
to happen to him? Had she deliberately watched the process with wise and
feminine curiosity, coolly keeping her own skirts clear?

And the more he cogitated, the deeper and more complex appeared to him
her intuitive and merciless knowledge of man.

Never had he beheld such lightning change in a woman. It couldn't be a
change; all this calm self-possession, all the cool badinage, all this
gaiety, this laughing malice, this serene capacity for appraising man
and his motives must have existed in her--hidden, not latent; concealed,
not embryotic!

He was illogical and perfectly masculine.

She was only a young girl, awakened, and making her first campaign.




                             CHAPTER XVIII

                              LESSE FOREST


As they came out of the forest and crossed the grassy circle where the
fountain was splashing they saw an automobile standing in the drive by
the front door.

"What does that mean?" exclaimed Guild, under his breath.

Both had halted, checked by the same impulse.

"Is it likely to be Baron von Reiter?" he asked, coldly.

She said, with admirable composure: "Whoever it is, we shall have to go
in."

"Yes, of course.... But if it happens to be the Baron----"

"Well?" she asked, looking away from him.

"In that event, have you nothing to say to me--now?"

"Not now."

"Haven't you, Karen?"

She shook her head, gazing steadily away from him.

"All right," he said, controlling his voice; "then I can make my adieux
to you indoors as well as here."

"Are you leaving immediately?"

"Yes. I should have left this morning."

After a moment's silence: "Shall I hear from you?"

"Have I your permission to write--if I can do so?"

"I don't know yet. I shall write you first. Are you to be at Lesse
Forest for a few days?"

"Yes. A note will reach me in care of Mrs. Courland."

Her pretty head was still averted. "We ought to go in now," she said.

Guild glanced sharply at the car as they passed it, and the chauffeur
touched his cap to them. It was a big, dark blue, three-seated touring
car, and there seemed to be nothing at all military in its appointments
or in the chauffeur's livery.

He opened the front door for Karen, and they walked into the hall
together.

A man rose quickly from a leather chair, as though he were a little
lame. "Hello, Kervyn!" he said gaily, advancing with hand extended. "How
are you, old top!"

"Harry!" exclaimed Guild; "I'm terribly glad to see you!"

They stood for a moment smiling at each other, hand clasped in hand.
Then Darrel said:

"When your note came this morning, we decided to motor over, Miss
Courland and I--" He turned toward a brown-eyed, blond young girl:
"Valentine, this is the celebrated vanishing man I've been worrying over
so long. You may not think he is worth worrying over, now that you see
him, and maybe he isn't; but somehow or other I like him."

Miss Courland laughed. "I think I shall like him, too," she said, "now
that I know he isn't merely a figment of your imagination--" She turned
her brown eyes, pleasantly and a trifle curiously, toward Karen, who had
paused beside the long table--a lithe and graceful figure in silhouette
against the brilliancy of the sun-lit doorway.

"Karen," said Guild, "this is Miss Courland who extends her own and Mrs.
Courland's charity to me--" He checked himself, smiling. "Do you still
extend it, Miss Courland?"

Valentine had come forward and had offered her hand to Karen, and
retaining it for a second, she turned to answer Guild:

"Of course! We came to take you back with us." And, to Karen: "It
isn't a very gracious thing for us to do--to steal a guest from
Quellenheim--and I am afraid you do not feel very grateful toward me for
doing it."

Their hands parted and their eyes rested on each other for a second's
swift feminine appraisal.

"Baron von Reiter has not yet arrived," said Karen, "so I do not think
Mr. Guild has had a very interesting visit. I feel as though I ought to
thank you for asking him to Lesse."

Guild, who was talking to Darrel, heard her, and gave her a rather grim
look.

Then he presented Darrel; and the light, gossipy conversation became
general.

With one ear on duty and one listening to Darrel, Guild heard Karen
giving to Valentine a carelessly humorous outline of her journey from
England--caught the little exclamations of interest and sympathy from
the pretty brown-eyed American girl, and still was able to sketch for
Darrel the same theme from his own more sober point of view.

Neither he nor Karen, of course, spoke of the reason for Guild's going
to England, nor that the journey had been undertaken on compulsion, nor,
indeed, did they hint at anything concerning the more sinister and
personal side of the affair. It merely appeared that a German general,
presumably a friend of Guild, not being able to get his daughter out of
England after hostilities had commenced, had confided the task to a man
he trusted and who was able to go unquestioned into a country at war
with his own. But it all seemed quite romantic enough, even under such
circumstances, to thrill Valentine Courland.

"Do come back to Lesse with us, won't you?" she asked Karen. "My mother
and I would love to have you. You'd be bored to distraction here with
only the housekeeper. Do come!"

"I haven't any clothes," said Karen frankly.

"I have loads of them! We'd be so glad to have you at Lesse. Won't you
come back with us?"

Karen laughed, enchanted. She could see Guild without looking at him.
His attitude was eloquent.

"If you really do want me, I'll come," she said. "But you and Mr. Darrel
will remain to luncheon, won't you? I'll speak to the Frau Förster--if I
may be excused--" She fell for a moment again, unconsciously, into her
quaint schoolgirl manner, and dropped them a little curtsey.

Guild opened the pantry door for her and held it.

"May I explain to them a little more clearly who you are, Karen?" he
asked in a low voice.

"Yes, please."

He came back into the hall where Miss Courland and Darrel were talking.
Valentine turned swiftly.

"Isn't she the sweetest thing!" exclaimed the girl warmly.

"She is really very wonderful," said Guild; "let me tell you a little
about her accomplishments and herself."

They were still listening to Guild, with an interest which absorbed
them, when Karen returned.

"The few clothes I have," she said, "are being repacked by Frau Bergner.
Kervyn, shall she repack your sack?"

"No, I'll do that," he said, turning away with the happiest face he had
worn that morning. And the girl knew that it was because they were going
away together again--taking life's highway once more in each other's
company. Involuntarily she looked after him, conscious for a second,
again, of new and powerful motives, new currents, new emotions invading
her; and she wondered how vitally they concerned this man who had so
suddenly destroyed a familiar world for her and as suddenly was offering
her as substitute a new and strange one.

Emerging from her brief abstraction she looked across the hall at
Valentine Courland, who, seated on the oak table, chatted animatedly
with Darrel. The girl was exceedingly attractive; Karen realized that at
once. Also this pretty American had said very frankly that she was
certain to like Guild. Karen had heard her say it.

"Miss Girard," said Darrel, "is the shooting good at Quellenheim? I
imagine it must be, judging from these trophies." He waved a
comprehensive hand toward the walls of the room.

Karen came slowly over to Valentine: "I really don't know much about
shooting. There are boar and deer here. I suppose at Lesse Forest you
have really excellent sport, don't you?"

"Our guests seem to find the shooting good," replied Valentine. "My
mother and I go out with them sometimes. I don't know whether we shall
be able to offer anybody any shooting this autumn. We are exceedingly
