couldn't exist without it."
The women all looked bewilderedly at one another, and then appealingly
at the men. None of these answered directly, but the bachelor softly
intoned out of Gilbert and Sullivan--he was of that date:
          "'A paradox, a paradox;
            A most ingenious paradox!'"
"Yes," the stop-gap defiantly assented. "A paradox; and all aboriginal
verities, all giant truths, are paradoxes."
"Giant truths is good," the bachelor noted, but the stop-gap did not
mind him.
He turned to the host: "I suppose that if divorce is an evil, and we
wish to extirpate it, we must strike at its root, at marriage?"
The host laughed. "I prefer not to take the floor. I'm sure we all
want to hear what you have to say in support of your mammoth idea."
"Oh yes, indeed," the women chorused, but rather tremulously, as not
knowing what might be coming.
"Which do you mean? That all truth is paradoxical, or that marriage is
the mother of divorce?"
"Whichever you like."
"The last proposition is self-evident," the stop-gap said, supplying
himself with a small bunch of the grapes which nobody ever takes at
dinner; the hostess was going to have coffee for the women in the
drawing-room, and to leave the men to theirs with their tobacco at the
table. "And you must allow that if divorce is a good thing or a bad
thing, it equally partakes of the nature of its parent. Or else
there's nothing in heredity."
"Oh, come!" one of the husbands said.
"Very well!" the stop-gap submitted. "I yield the word to you." But as
the other went no further, he continued. "The case is so clear that it
needs no argument. Up to this time, in dealing with the evil of
divorce, if it is an evil, we have simply been suppressing the
symptoms; and your Swiss method--"
"Oh, it isn't mine," the man said who had stated it.
"--Is only a part of the general practice. It is another attempt to
make divorce difficult, when it is marriage that ought to be made
difficult."
"Some," the daring bachelor said, "think it ought to be made
impossible." The girl across the table began to laugh hysterically,
but caught herself up and tried to look as if she had not laughed at
all.
"I don't go as far as that," the stop-gap resumed, "but as an
inveterate enemy of divorce--"
An "Oh!" varying from surprise to derision chorused up; but he did not
mind it; he went on as if uninterrupted.
"I should put every possible obstacle, and at every step, in the way
of marriage. The attitude of society toward marriage is now simply
preposterous, absolutely grotesque. Society? The whole human framework
in all its manifestations, social, literary, religious, artistic, and
civic, is perpetually guilty of the greatest mischief in the matter.
Nothing is done to retard or prevent marriage; everything to
accelerate and promote it. Marriage is universally treated as a virtue
which of itself consecrates the lives of the mostly vulgar and
entirely selfish young creatures who enter into it. The blind and
witless passion in which it oftenest originates, at least with us, is
flattered out of all semblance to its sister emotions, and revered as
if it were a celestial inspiration, a spiritual impulse. But is it? I
defy any one here to say that it is."
As if they were afraid of worse things if they spoke, the company
remained silent. But this did not save them.
"You all know it isn't. You all know that it is the caprice of chance
encounter, the result of propinquity, the invention of poets and
novelists, the superstition of the victims, the unscrupulous
make-believe of the witnesses. As an impulse it quickly wears itself
out in marriage, and makes way for divorce. In this country
nine-tenths of the marriages are love-matches. The old motives which
delay and prevent marriage in other countries, aristocratic countries,
like questions of rank and descent, even of money, do not exist. Yet
this is the land of unhappy unions beyond all other lands, the very
home of divorce. The conditions of marriage are ideally favorable
according to the opinions of its friends, who are all more or less
active in bottling husbands and wives up in its felicity and
preventing their escape through divorce."
Still the others were silent, and again the stop-gap triumphed on.
"Now, I am an enemy of divorce, too; but I would have it begin before
marriage."
"Rather paradoxical again?" the bachelor alone had the hardihood to
suggest.
"Not at all. I am quite literal. I would have it begin with the
engagement. I would have the betrothed--the mistress and the
lover--come before the magistrate or the minister, and declare their
motives in wishing to marry, and then I would have him reason with
them, and represent that they were acting emotionally in obedience to
a passion which must soon spend itself, or a fancy which they would
quickly find illusory. If they agreed with him, well and good; if not,
he should dismiss them to their homes, for say three months, to think
it over. Then he should summon them again, and again reason with them,
and dismiss them as before, if they continued obstinate. After three
months more, he should call them before him and reason with them for
the last time. If they persisted in spite of everything, he should
marry them, and let them take the consequences."
The stop-gap leaned back in his chair defiantly, and fixed the host
with an eye of challenge. Upon the whole the host seemed not so much
frightened. He said: "I don't see anything so original in all that.
It's merely a travesty of the Swiss law of divorce."
"And you see nothing novel, nothing that makes for the higher
civilization in the application of that law to marriage? You all
approve of that law because you believe it prevents nine-tenths of the
divorces; but if you had a law that would similarly prevent
nine-tenths of the marriages, you would need no divorce law at all."
"Oh, I don't know that," the hardy bachelor said. "What about the
one-tenth of the marriages which it didn't prevent? Would you have the
parties hopelessly shut up to them? Would you forbid them all hope
of escape? Would you have no divorce for any cause whatever?"
"Yes," the husband on the right of the hostess asked (but his wife on
the right of the host looked as if she wished he had not mixed in),
"wouldn't more unhappiness result from that one marriage than from all
the marriages as we have them now?"
"Aren't you both rather precipitate?" the stop-gap demanded. "I said,
let the parties to the final marriage take the consequences. But if
these consequences were too dire, I would not forbid them the hope of
relief. I haven't thought the matter out very clearly yet, but there
are one or two causes for divorce which I would admit."
"Ah?" the host inquired, with a provisional smile.
"Yes, causes going down into the very nature of things--the nature of
men and of women. Incompatibility of temperament ought always to be
very seriously considered as a cause."
"Yes?"
"And, above all," and here the stop-gap swept the board with his eye,
"difference of sex."
The sort of laugh which expresses uncertainty of perception and
conditional approval went up.
The hostess rose with rather a frightened air. "Shall we leave them to
their tobacco?" she said to the other women.
When he went home the stop-gap celebrated his triumph to his wife. "I
don't think she'll ask you for the loan of me again to fill a place
without you."
"Yes," she answered, remotely. "You don't suppose she'll think we live
unhappily together?"
                                 XVII
                    THE ESCAPADE OF A GRANDFATHER
"Well, what are you doing here?" the younger of the two sages asked,
with a resolute air of bonhomie, as he dragged himself over the
asphalt path, and sank, gasping, into the seat beside the other in the
Park. His senior lifted his head and looked him carefully over to make
sure of his identity, and then he said:
"I suppose, to answer your fatuous question, I am waiting here to get
my breath before I move on; and in the next place, I am watching the
feet of the women who go by in their high-heeled shoes."
"How long do you think it will take you to get your breath in the
atmosphere of these motors?" the younger sage pursued. "And you don't
imagine that these women are of the first fashion, do you?"
"No, but I imagine their shoes are. I have been calculating that their
average heel is from an inch and a half to two inches high, and
touches the ground in the circumference of a twenty-five-cent piece.
As you seem to be fond of asking questions, perhaps you will like to
answer one. Why do you think they do it?"
"Wear shoes like that?" the younger returned, cheerily, and laughed as
he added, "Because the rest do."
"Mmm!" the elder grumbled, not wholly pleased, and yet not refusing
the answer. He had been having a little touch of grippe, and was
somewhat broken from his wonted cynicism. He said: "It's very strange,
very sad. Just now there was such a pretty young girl, so sweet and
fine, went tottering by as helpless, in any exigency, as the daughter
of a thousand years of bound-feet Chinese women. While she tilted on,
the nice young fellow with her swept forward with one stride to her
three on the wide soles and low heels of nature-last boots, and kept
himself from out-walking her by a devotion that made him grit his
teeth. Probably she was wiser and better and brighter than he, but she
didn't look it; and I, who voted to give her the vote the other day,
had my misgivings. I think I shall satisfy myself for the next five
years by catching cold in taking my hat off to her in elevators, and
getting killed by automobiles in helping her off the cars, where I've
given her my seat."
"But you must allow that if her shoes are too tight, her skirts are
not so tight as they were. Or have you begun sighing for the good old
hobble-skirts, now they're gone?"
"The hobble-skirts were prettier than I thought they were when they
were with us, but the 'tempestuous petticoat' has its charm, which I
find I'd been missing."
"Well, at least it's a change," the younger sage allowed, "and I
haven't found the other changes in our dear old New York which I look
for when I come back in the fall."
The sages were enjoying together the soft weather which lingered with
us a whole month from the middle of October onward, and the afternoon
of their meeting in the Park was now softly reddening to the dim
sunset over the westward trees.
"Yes," the elder assented. "I miss the new sky-scrapers which used to
welcome me back up and down the Avenue. But there are more automobiles
than ever, and the game of saving your life from them when you cross
the street is madder and merrier than I have known it before."
"The war seems to have stopped building because people can't afford
it," the other suggested, "but it has only increased automobiling."
"Well, people can't afford that, either. Nine-tenths of them are
traveling the road to ruin, I'm told, and apparently they can't get
over the ground too fast. Just look!" and the sages joined in the
amused and mournful contemplation of the different types of motors
innumerably whirring up and down the drive before them, while they
choked in the fumes of the gasolene.
The motors were not the costliest types, except in a few instances,
and in most instances they were the cheaper types, such as those who
could not afford them could at least afford best. The sages had found
a bench beside the walk where the statue of Daniel Webster looks down
on the confluence of two driveways, and the stream of motors, going
and coming, is like a seething torrent either way.
"The mystery is," the elder continued, "why they should want to do it
in the way they do it. Are they merely going somewhere and must get
there in the shortest time possible, or are they arriving on a wager?
If they are taking a pleasure drive, what a droll idea of pleasure
they must have! Maybe they are trying to escape Black Care, but they
must know he sits beside the chauffeur as he used to sit behind the
horseman, and they know that he has a mortgage in his pocket, and can
foreclose it any time on the house they have hypothecated to buy their
car. Ah!" The old man started forward with the involuntary impulse of
rescue. But it was not one of the people who singly, or in terrorized
groups, had been waiting at the roadside to find their way across; it
was only a hapless squirrel of those which used to make their way
safely among the hoofs and wheels of the kind old cabs and carriages,
and it lay instantly crushed under the tire of a motor. "He's done
for, poor little wretch! They can't get used to the change. Some day a
policeman will pick me up from under a second-hand motor. I wonder
what the great Daniel from his pedestal up there would say if he came
to judgment."
"He wouldn't believe in the change any more than that squirrel. He
would decide that he was dreaming, and would sleep on, forgetting and
forgotten."
"Forgotten," the elder sage assented. "I remember when his fame filled
the United States, which was then the whole world to me. And now I
don't imagine that our hyphenated citizens have the remotest
consciousness of him. If Daniel began delivering one of his
liberty-and-union-now-and-forever-one-and-inseparable speeches, they
wouldn't know what he was talking about." The sage laughed and champed
his toothless jaws together, as old men do in the effort to compose
their countenances after an emotional outbreak.
"Well, for one thing," the younger observed, "they wouldn't understand
what he said. You will notice, if you listen to them going by, that
they seldom speak English. That's getting to be a dead language in New
York, though it's still used in the newspapers." He thought to hearten
the other with his whimsicality, for it seemed to him that the elder
sage was getting sensibly older since their last meeting, and that he
would be the gayer for such cheer as a man on the hither side of
eighty can offer a man on the thither. "Perhaps the Russian Jews would
appreciate Daniel if he were put into Yiddish for them. They're the
brightest intelligences among our hyphenates. And they have the
old-fashioned ideals of liberty and humanity, perhaps because they've
known so little of either."
His gaiety did not seem to enliven his senior much. "Ah, the old
ideals!" he sighed. "The old ideal of an afternoon airing was a gentle
course in an open carriage on a soft drive. Now it's a vertiginous
whirl on an asphalted road, round and round and round the Park till
the victims stagger with their brains spinning after they get out of
their cars."
The younger sage laughed. "You've been listening to the pessimism of
the dear old fellows who drive the few lingering victorias. If you'd
believe them, all these people in the motors are chauffeurs giving
their lady-friends joy-rides."
"Few?" the elder retorted. "There are lots of them. I've counted
twenty in a single round of the Park. I was proud to be in one of
them, though my horse left something to be desired in the way of youth
and beauty. But I reflected that I was not very young or beautiful
myself."
As the sages sat looking out over the dizzying whirl of the motors
they smoothed the tops of their sticks with their soft old hands, and
were silent oftener than not. The elder seemed to drowse off from the
time and place, but he was recalled by the younger saying, "It is
certainly astonishing weather for this season of the year."
The elder woke up and retorted, as if in offense: "Not at all. I've
seen the cherries in blossom at the end of October."
"They didn't set their fruit, I suppose."
"Well--no."
"Ah! Well, I saw a butterfly up here in the sheep-pasture the other
day. I could have put out my hand and caught it. It's the soft weather
that brings your victorias out like the belated butterflies. Wait till
the first cold snap, and there won't be a single victoria or butterfly
left."
"Yes," the elder assented, "we butterflies and victorias belong to the
youth of the year and the world. And the sad thing is that we won't
have our palingenesis."
"Why not?" the younger sage demanded. "What is to prevent your coming
back in two or three thousand years?"
"Well, if we came back in a year even, we shouldn't find room, for one
reason. Haven't you noticed how full to bursting the place seems?
Every street is as packed as lower Fifth Avenue used to be when the
operatives came out of the big shops for their nooning. The city's
shell hasn't been enlarged or added to, but the life in it has
multiplied past its utmost capacity. All the hotels and houses and
flats are packed. The theaters, wherever the plays are bad enough,
swarm with spectators. Along up and down every side-streets the motors
stand in rows, and at the same time the avenues are so dense with them
that you are killed at every crossing. There has been no building to
speak of during the summer, but unless New York is overbuilt next year
we must appeal to Chicago to come and help hold it. But I've an idea
that the victorias are remaining to stay; if some sort of mechanical
horse could be substituted for the poor old animals that remind me of
my mortality, I should be sure of it. Every now and then I get an
impression of permanence in the things of the Park. As long as the
peanut-men and the swan-boats are with us I sha'n't quite despair.
And the other night I was moved almost to tears by the sight of a
four-in-hand tooling softly down the Fifth Avenue drive. There it was,
like some vehicular phantom, but how, whence, when? It came, as if out
of the early eighteen-nineties; two middle-aged grooms, with their
arms folded, sat on the rumble (if it's the rumble), but of all the
young people who ought to have flowered over the top none was left but
the lady beside the gentleman-driver on the box. I've tried every
evening since for that four-in-hand, but I haven't seen it, and I've
decided it wasn't a vehicular phantom, but a mere dream of the past."
"Four-horse dream," the younger sage commented, as if musing aloud.
The elder did not seem quite pleased. "A joke?" he challenged.
"Not necessarily. I suppose I was the helpless prey of the rhyme."
"I didn't know you were a poet."
"I'm not, always. But didn't it occur to you that danger for danger
your four-in-hand was more dangerous than an automobile to the passing
human creature?"
"It might have been if it had been multiplied by ten thousand. But
there was only one of it, and it wasn't going twenty miles an hour."
"That's true," the younger sage assented. "But there was always a
fearful hazard in horses when we had them. We supposed they were
tamed, but, after all, they were only trained animals, like
Hagenback's."
"And what is a chauffeur?"
"Ah, you have me there!" the younger said, and he laughed generously.
"Or you would have if I hadn't noticed something like amelioration in
the chauffeurs. At any rate, the taxis are cheaper than they were, and
I suppose something will be done about the street traffic some time.
They're talking now about subway crossings. But I should prefer
overhead foot-bridges at all the corners, crossing one another
diagonally. They would look like triumphal arches, and would serve the
purpose of any future Dewey victory if we should happen to have
another hero to win one."
"Well, we must hope for the best. I rather like the notion of the
diagonal foot-bridges. But why not Rows along the second stories as
they have them in Chester? I should be pretty sure of always getting
home alive if we had them. Now if I'm not telephoned for at a hospital
before I'm restored to consciousness, I think myself pretty lucky. And
yet it seems but yesterday, as the people used to say in the plays,
since I had a pride in counting the automobiles as I walked up the
Avenue. Once I got as high as twenty before I reached Fifty-ninth
Street. Now I couldn't count as many horse vehicles."
The elder sage mocked himself in a feeble laugh, but the younger tried
to be serious. "We don't realize the absolute change. Our streets are
not streets any more; they are railroad tracks with locomotives let
loose on them, and no signs up to warn people at the crossings. It's
pathetic to see the foot-passengers saving themselves, especially the
poor, pretty, high-heeled women, looking this way and that in their
fright, and then tottering over as fast as they can totter."
"Well, I should have said it was outrageous, humiliating, insulting,
once, but I don't any more; it would be no use."
"No; and so much depends upon the point of view. When I'm on foot I
feel all my rights invaded, but when I'm in a taxi it amuses me to see
the women escaping; and I boil with rage in being halted at every
other corner by the policeman with his new-fangled semaphore, and it's
"Go" and "Stop" in red and blue, and my taxi-clock going round all the
time and getting me in for a dollar when I thought I should keep
within seventy cents. Then I feel that pedestrians of every age and
sex ought to be killed."
"Yes, there's something always in the point of view; and there's some
comfort when you're stopped in your taxi to feel that they often do
get killed."
The sages laughed together, and the younger said: "I suppose when we
get aeroplanes in common use, there'll be annoying traffic
regulations, and policemen anchored out at intervals in the central
blue to enforce them. After all--"
What he was going to add in amplification cannot be known, for a
girlish voice, trying to sharpen itself from its native sweetness to a
conscientious severity, called to them as its owner swiftly advanced
upon the elder sage: "Now, see here, grandfather! This won't do at
all. You promised not to leave that bench by the Indian Hunter, and
here you are away down by the Falconer, and we've been looking
everywhere for you. It's too bad! I shall be afraid to trust you at
all after this. Why, it's horrid of you, grandfather! You might have
got killed crossing the drive."
The grandfather looked up and verified the situation, which seemed to
include a young man, tall and beautiful, but neither so handsome nor
so many heads high as the young men in the advertisements of
ready-to-wear clothing, who smiled down on the young girl as if he had
arrived with her, and were finding an amusement in her severity which
he might not, later. She was, in fact, very pretty, and her skirt
flared in the fashion of the last moment, as she stooped threateningly
yet fondly over her grandfather.
The younger sage silently and somewhat guiltily escaped from the
tumult of emotion which ignored him, and shuffled slowly down the
path. The other finally gave an "Oh!" of recognition, and then said,
for all explanation and excuse, "I didn't know what had become of
you," and then they all laughed.
                                XVIII
                   SELF-SACRIFICE: A FARCE-TRAGEDY
                                  I
              MISS ISOBEL RAMSEY AND MISS ESTHER GARNETT
Miss Ramsey: "And they were really understood to be engaged?" Miss
Ramsey is a dark-eyed, dark-haired girl of nearly the length of two
lady's umbrellas and the bulk of one closely folded in its sheath. She
stands with her elbow supported on the corner of the mantel, her
temple resting on the knuckle of a thin, nervous hand, in an effect of
thoughtful absent-mindedness. Miss Garnett, more or less Merovingian
in a costume that lends itself somewhat reluctantly to a low, thick
figure, is apparently poising for departure, as she stands before the
chair from which she has risen beside Miss Ramsey's tea-table and
looks earnestly up into Miss Ramsey's absent face. Both are very
young, but aim at being much older than they are, with occasional
lapses into extreme girlhood.
Miss Garnett: "Yes, distinctly. I knew you couldn't know, and I
thought you ought to." She speaks in a deep conviction-bearing and
conviction-carrying voice. "If he has been coming here so much."
Miss Ramsey, with what seems temperamental abruptness: "Sit down.
One can always think better sitting down." She catches a chair under
her with a deft movement of her heel, and Miss Garnett sinks
provisionally into her seat. "And I think it needs thought, don't
you?"
Miss Garnett: "That is what I expected of you."
Miss Ramsey: "And have some more tea. There is nothing like fresh
tea for clearing the brain, and we certainly need clear brains for
this." She pushes a button in the wall beside her, and is silent till
the maid appears. "More tea, Nora." She is silent again while the maid
reappears with the tea and disappears. "I don't know that he has been
coming here so very much. But he has no right to be coming at all,
if he is engaged. That is, in that way."
Miss Garnett: "No. Not unless--he wishes he wasn't."
Miss Ramsey: "That would give him less than no right."
Miss Garnett: "That is true. I didn't think of it in that light."
Miss Ramsey: "I'm trying to decide what I ought to do if he does
want to get off. She said herself that they were engaged?"
Miss Garnett: "As much as that. Conny understood her to say so. And
Conny never makes a mistake in what people say. Emily didn't say
whom she was engaged to, but Conny felt that that was to come later,
and she did not quite feel like asking, don't you know."
Miss Ramsey: "Of course. And how came she to decide that it was Mr.
Ashley?"
Miss Garnett: "Simply by putting two and two together. They two were
together the whole time last summer."
Miss Ramsey: "I see. Then there is only one thing for me to do."
Miss Garnett, admiringly: "I knew you would say that."
Miss Ramsey, dreamily: "The question is what the thing is."
Miss Garnett: "Yes!"
Miss Ramsey: "That is what I wish to think over. Chocolates?" She
offers a box, catching it with her left hand from the mantel at her
shoulder, without rising.
Miss Garnett: "Thank you; do you think they go well with tea?"
Miss Ramsey: "They go well with anything. But we mustn't allow our
minds to be distracted. The case is simply this: If Mr. Ashley is
engaged to Emily Fray, he has no right to go round calling on other
girls--well, as if he wasn't--and he has been calling here a great
deal. That is perfectly evident. He must be made to feel that girls
are not to be trifled with--that they are not mere toys."
Miss Garnett: "How splendidly you do reason! And he ought to
understand that Emily has a right--"
Miss Ramsey: "Oh, I don't know that I care about her--or not
primarily. Or do you say primarily?"
Miss Garnett: "I never know. I only use it in writing."
Miss Ramsey: "It's a clumsy word; I don't know that I shall. But
what I mean is that I must act from a general principle, and that
principle is that when a man is engaged, it doesn't matter whether the
girl has thrown herself at him, or not--"
Miss Garnett: "She certainly did, from what Conny says."
Miss Ramsey: "He must be shown that other girls won't tolerate his
behaving as if he were not engaged. It is wrong."
Miss Garnett: "We must stand together."
Miss Ramsey: "Yes. Though I don't infer that he has been attentive
to other girls generally."
Miss Garnett: "No. I meant that if he has been coming here so much,
you want to prevent his trifling with others."
Miss Ramsey: "Something like that. But it ought to be more definite.
He ought to realize that if another girl cared for him, it would be
cruel to her, paying her attentions, when he was engaged to some one
else."
Miss Garnett: "And cruel to the girl he is engaged to."
Miss Ramsey: "Yes." She speaks coldly, vaguely. "But that is the
personal ground, and I wish to avoid that. I wish to deal with him
purely in the abstract."
Miss Garnett: "Yes, I understand that. And at the same time you wish
to punish him. He ought to be made to feel it all the more because he
is so severe himself."
Miss Ramsey: "Severe?"
Miss Garnett: "Not tolerating anything that's the least out of the
way in other people. Taking you up about your ideas and showing where
you're wrong, or even silly. Spiritually snubbing, Conny calls it."
Miss Ramsey: "Oh, I like that in him. It's so invigorating. It
braces up all your good resolutions. It makes you ashamed; and shame
is sanative."
Miss Garnett: "That's just what I told Conny, or the same thing. Do
you think another one would hurt me? I will risk it, anyway." She
takes another chocolate from the box. "Go on."
Miss Ramsey: "Oh, I was just wishing that I had been out longer, and
had a little more experience of men. Then I should know how to act.
How do you suppose people do, generally?"
Miss Garnett: "Why, you know, if they find a man in love with them,
after he's engaged to another girl, they make him go back to her, it
doesn't matter whether they're in love with him themselves or not."
Miss Ramsey: "I'm not in love with Mr. Ashley, please."
Miss Garnett: "No; I'm supposing an extreme case."
Miss Ramsey, after a moment of silent thought: "Did you ever hear of
anybody doing it?"
Miss Garnett: "Not just in our set. But I know it's done
continually."
Miss Ramsey: "It seems to me as if I had read something of the
kind."
Miss Garnett: "Oh yes, the books are full of it. Are those mallows?
They might carry off the effects of the chocolates." Miss Ramsey
passes her the box of marshmallows which she has bent over the table
to look at.
Miss Ramsey: "And of course they couldn't get into the books if they
hadn't really happened. I wish I could think of a case in point."
Miss Garnett: "Why, there was Peg Woffington--"
Miss Ramsey, with displeasure: "She was an actress of some sort,
wasn't she?"
Miss Garnett, with meritorious candor: "Yes, she was. But she was a
very good actress."
Miss Ramsey: "What did she do?"
Miss Garnett: "Well, it's a long time since I read it; and it's
rather old-fashioned now. But there was a countryman of some sort, I
remember, who came away from his wife, and fell in love with Peg
Woffington, and then the wife follows him up to London, and begs her
to give him back to her, and she does it. There's something about a
portrait of Peg--I don't remember exactly; she puts her face through
and cries when the wife talks to the picture. The wife thinks it is a
real picture, and she is kind of soliloquizing, and asking Peg to give
her husband back to her; and Peg does, in the end. That part is
beautiful. They become the greatest friends."
Miss Ramsey: "Rather silly, I should say."
Miss Garnett: "Yes, it is rather silly, but I suppose the author
thought she had to do something."
Miss Ramsey: "And disgusting. A married man, that way! I don't see
any comparison with Mr. Ashley."
Miss Garnett: "No, there really isn't any. Emily has never asked you
to give him up. And besides, Peg Woffington really liked him a
little--loved him, in fact."
Miss Ramsey: "And I don't like Mr. Ashley at all. Of course I
respect him--and I admire his intellect; there's no question about his
being handsome; but I have never thought of him for a moment in any
other way; and now I can't even respect him."
Miss Garnett: "Nobody could. I'm sure Emily would be welcome to him
as far as I was concerned. But he has never been about with me so
much as he has with you, and I don't wonder you feel indignant."
Miss Ramsey, coldly: "I don't feel indignant. I wish to be just."
Miss Garnett: "Yes, that is what I mean. And poor Emily is so
uninteresting! In the play that Kentucky Summers does, she is
perfectly fascinating at first, and you can see why the poor girl's
fiancé should be so taken with her. But I'm sure no one could say you
had ever given Mr. Ashley the least encouragement. It would be pure
justice on your part. I think you are grand! I shall always be proud
of knowing what you were going to do."
Miss Ramsey, after some moments of snubbing intention: "I don't know
what I am going to do myself, yet. Or how. What was that play? I
never heard of it."
Miss Garnett: "I don't remember distinctly, but it was about a young
man who falls in love with her, when he's engaged to another girl, and
she determines, as soon as she finds it out, to disgust him, so that
he will go back to the other girl, don't you know."
Miss Ramsey: "That sounds rather more practical than the Peg
Woffington plan. What does she do?"
Miss Garnett: "Nothing you'd like to do."
Miss Ramsey: "I'd like to do something in such a cause. What does
she do?"
Miss Garnett: "Oh, when he is calling on her, Kentucky Summers
pretends to fly into a rage with her sister, and she pulls her hair
down, and slams everything round the room, and scolds, and drinks
champagne, and wants him to drink with her, and I don't know what all.
The upshot is that he is only too glad to get away."
Miss Ramsey: "It's rather loathsome, isn't it?"
Miss Garnett: "It is rather loathsome. But it was in a good cause,
and I suppose it was what an actress would think of."
Miss Ramsey: "An actress?"
Miss Garnett: "I forgot. The heroine is a distinguished actress, you
know, and Kentucky could play that sort of part to perfection. But I
don't think a lady would like to cut up, much, in the best cause."
Miss Ramsey: "Cut up?"
Miss Garnett: "She certainly frisks about the room a good deal. How
delicious these mallows are! Have you ever tried toasting them?"
Miss Ramsey: "At school. There seems an idea in it. And the hero
isn't married. I don't like the notion of a married man."
Miss Garnett: "Oh, I'm quite sure he isn't married. He's merely
engaged. That makes the whole difference from the Peg Woffington
story. And there's no portrait, I'm confident, so that you wouldn't
have to do that part."
Miss Ramsey, haughtily: "I don't propose to do any part, if the
affair can't be arranged without some such mountebank business!"
Miss Garnett: "You can manage it, if anybody can. You have so much
dignity that you could awe him into doing his duty by a single glance.
I wouldn't be in his place!"
Miss Ramsey: "I shall not give him a glance. I shall not see him
when he comes. That will be simpler still." To Nora, at the door:
"What is it, Nora?"
                                  II
                   NORA, MISS RAMSEY, MISS GARNETT
Nora: "Mr. Ashley, Miss Ramsey."
Miss Ramsey, with a severity not meant for Nora: "Ask him to sit
down in the reception-room a moment."
Nora: "Yes, Miss Ramsey."
                                 III
                      MISS RAMSEY, MISS GARNETT
Miss Garnett, rising and seizing Miss Ramsey's hands: "Oh, Isobel!
But you will be equal to it! Oh! Oh!"
Miss Ramsey, with state: "Why are you going, Esther? Sit down."
Miss Garnett: "If I only could stay! If I could hide under the
sofa, or behind the screen! Isn't it wonderful--providential--his
coming at the very instant? Oh, Isobel!" She clasps her friend
convulsively, and after a moment's resistance Miss Ramsey yields to
her emotion, and they hide their faces in each other's neck, and
strangle their hysteric laughter. They try to regain their composure,
and then abandon the effort with a shuddering delight in the
perfection of the incident. "What shall you do? Shall you trust to
inspiration? Shall you make him show his hand first, and then act? Or
shall you tell him at once that you know all, and-- Or no, of course
you can't do that. He's not supposed to know that you know. Oh, I can
imagine the freezing hauteur that you'll receive him with, and the icy
indifference you'll let him understand that he isn't a persona grata
with! If I were only as tall as you! He isn't as tall himself, and you
can tower over him. Don't sit down, or bend, or anything; just stand
with your head up, and glance carelessly at him under your lashes as
if nobody was there! Then it will gradually dawn upon him that you
know everything, and he'll simply go through the floor." They take
some ecstatic turns about the room, Miss Ramsey waltzing as gentleman.
She abruptly frees herself.
Miss Ramsey: "No. It can't be as tacit as all that. There must be
something explicit. As you say, I must do something to cure him of
his fancy--his perfidy--and make him glad to go back to her."
Miss Garnett: "Yes! Do you think he deserves it?"
Miss Ramsey: "I've no wish to punish him."
Miss Garnett: "How noble you are! I don't wonder he adores you. I
should. But you won't find it so easy. You must do something drastic.
It is drastic, isn't it? or do I mean static? One of those things
when you simply crush a person. But now I must go. How I should like
to listen at the door! We must kiss each other very quietly, and I
must slip out-- Oh, you dear! How I long to know what you'll do! But it
will be perfect, whatever it is. You always did do perfect things."
They knit their fingers together in parting. "On second thoughts I
won't kiss you. It might unman you, and you need all your strength.
Unman isn't the word, exactly, but you can't say ungirl, can you? It
would be ridiculous. Though girls are as brave as men when it comes to
duty. Good-by, dear!" She catches Miss Ramsey about the neck, and
pressing her lips silently to her cheek, runs out. Miss Ramsey rings
and the maid appears.
                                  IV
                          NORA, MISS RAMSEY
Miss Ramsey, starting: "Oh! Is that you, Nora? Of course! Nora!"
Nora: "Yes, Miss Ramsey."
Miss Ramsey: "Do you know where my brother keeps his cigarettes?"
Nora: "Why, in his room, Miss Ramsey; you told him you didn't like
the smell here."
Miss Ramsey: "Yes, yes. I forgot. And has he got any cocktails?"
Nora: "He's got the whole bottle full of them yet."
Miss Ramsey: "Full yet?"
Nora: "You wouldn't let him offer them to the gentlemen he had to
lunch, last week, because you said--"
Miss Ramsey: "What did I say?"
Nora: "They were vulgar."
Miss Ramsey: "And so they are. And so much the better! Bring the
cigarettes and the bottle and some glasses here, Nora, and then ask
Mr. Ashley to come." She walks away to the window, and hurriedly hums
a musical comedy waltz, not quite in tune, as from not remembering
exactly, and after Nora has tinkled in with a tray of glasses she
lights a cigarette and stands puffing it, gasping and coughing a
little, as Walter Ashley enters. "Oh, Mr. Ashley! Sorry to make you
wait."
                                  V
                       MR. ASHLEY, MISS RAMSEY
Mr. Ashley: "The time has seemed long, but I could have waited all
day. I couldn't have gone without seeing you, and telling you--" He
pauses, as if bewildered at the spectacle of Miss Ramsey's resolute
practice with the cigarette, which she now takes from her lips and
waves before her face with innocent recklessness.
Miss Ramsey, chokingly: "Do sit down." She drops into an easy-chair
beside the tea-table, and stretches the tips of her feet out beyond
the hem of her skirt in extremely lady-like abandon. "Have a
cigarette." She reaches the box to him.
Ashley: "Thank you. I won't smoke, I believe." He stands frowning,
while she throws her cigarette into a teacup and lights another.
Miss Ramsey: "I thought everybody smoked. Then have a cocktail."
Ashley: "A what?"
Miss Ramsey: "A cocktail. So many people like them with their tea,
instead of rum, you know."
Ashley: "No, I didn't know." He regards her with amaze, rapidly
hardening into condemnation.
Miss Ramsey: "I hope you don't object to smoking. Englishwomen all
smoke."
Ashley: "I think I've heard. I didn't know that American ladies
did."
Miss Ramsey: "They don't, all. But they will when they find how
nice it is."
Ashley: "And do Englishwomen all drink cocktails?"
Miss Ramsey: "They will when they find how nice it is. But why do
you keep standing? Sit down, if it's only for a moment. There is
something I would like to talk with you about. What were you saying
when you came in? I didn't catch it quite."
Ashley: "Nothing--now--"
Miss Ramsey: "And I can't persuade you to have a cocktail? I believe
I'll have another myself." She takes up the bottle, and tries several
times to pour from it. "I do believe Nora's forgotten to open it! That
is a good joke on me. But I mustn't let her know. Do you happen to
have a pocket-corkscrew with you, Mr. Ashley?"
Ashley: "No--"
Miss Ramsey: "Well, never mind." She tosses her cigarette into the
grate, and lights another. "I wonder why they always have cynical
persons smoke, on the stage? I don't see that the two things
necessarily go together, but it does give you a kind of thrill when
they strike a match, and it lights up their faces when they put it to
the cigarette. You know something good and wicked is going to happen."
She puffs violently at her cigarette, and then suddenly flings it away
and starts to her feet. "Will you--would you--open the window?" She
collapses into her chair.
Ashley, springing toward her: "Miss Ramsey, are you--you are ill!"
Miss Ramsey: "No, no! The window! A little faint--it's so
close-- There, it's all right now. Or it will be--when--I've
had--another cigarette." She leans forward to take one; Ashley gravely
watches her, but says nothing. She lights her cigarette, but, without
smoking, throws it away. "Go on."
Ashley: "I wasn't saying anything!"
Miss Ramsey: "Oh, I forgot. And I don't know what we were talking
about myself." She falls limply back into her chair and closes her
eyes.
Ashley: "Sha'n't I ring for the maid? I'm afraid--"
Miss Ramsey, imperiously: "Not at all. Not on any account." Far less
imperiously: "You may pour me a cup of tea if you like. That will make
me well. The full strength, please." She motions away the hot-water
jug with which he has proposed qualifying the cup of tea which he
offers her.
Ashley: "One lump or two?"
Miss Ramsey: "Only one, thank you." She takes the cup.
Ashley, offering the milk: "Cream?"
Miss Ramsey: "A drop." He stands anxiously beside her while she
takes a long draught and then gives back the cup. "That was perfect."
Ashley: "Another?"
Miss Ramsey: "No, that is just right. Now go on. Or, I forgot. You
were not going on. Oh dear! How much better I feel. There must have
been something poisonous in those cigarettes."
Ashley: "Yes, there was tobacco."
Miss Ramsey: "Oh, do you think it was the tobacco? Do throw the
whole box into the fire! I shall tell Bob never to get cigarettes with
tobacco in them after this. Won't you have one of the chocolates? Or a
mallow? I feel as if I should never want to eat anything again. Where
was I?" She rests her cheek against the side of her chair cushion, and
speaks with closed eyes, in a weak murmur. Mr. Ashley watches her at
first with anxiety, then with a gradual change of countenance until a
gleam of intelligence steals into his look of compassion.
Ashley: "You asked me to throw the cigarettes into the fire. But I
want you to let me keep them."
Miss Ramsey, with wide-flung eyes: "You? You said you wouldn't
smoke."
Ashley, laughing: "May I change my mind? One talks better." He
lights a cigarette. "And, Miss Ramsey, I believe I will have a
cocktail, after all."
Miss Ramsey: "Mr. Ashley!"
Ashley, without noting her protest: "I had forgotten that I had a
corkscrew in my pocket-knife. Don't trouble yourself to ring for one."
He produces the knife and opens the bottle; then, as Miss Ramsey rises
and stands aghast, he pours out a glass and offers it to her, with
mock devotion. As she shakes her head and recoils: "Oh! I thought you
liked cocktails. They are very good after cigarettes--very reviving.
But if you won't--" He tosses off the cocktail and sets down the
glass, smacking his lips. "Tell your brother I commend his taste--in
cocktails and"--puffing his cigarette--"tobacco. Poison for poison,
let me offer you one of my cigarettes. They're milder than these."
He puts his hand to his breast pocket.
Miss Ramsey, with nervous shrinking: "No--"
Ashley: "It's just as well. I find that I hadn't brought mine with
me." After a moment: "You are so unconventional, so fearless, that I
should like your notion of the problem in a book I've just been
reading. Why should the mere fact that a man is married to one woman
prevent his being in love with another, or half a dozen others; or
vice versa?"
Miss Ramsey: "Mr. Ashley, do you wish to insult me?"
Ashley: "Dear me, no! But put the case a little differently. Suppose
a couple are merely engaged. Does that fact imply that neither has a
right to a change of mind, or to be fancy free to make another
choice?"
Miss Ramsey, indignantly: "Yes, it does. They are as sacredly bound
to each other as if they were married, and if they are false to each
other the girl is a wretch, and the man is a villain! And if you think
anything I have said can excuse you for breaking your engagement, or
that I don't consider you the wickedest person in the world, and the
most barefaced hypocrite, and--and--I don't know what--you are very
much mistaken."
Ashley: "What in the world are you talking about?"
Miss Ramsey: "I am talking about you and your shameless perfidy."
Ashley: "My shameless perf-- I don't understand! I came here
to tell you that I love you--"
Miss Ramsey: "How dare you! To speak to me of that, when-- Or
perhaps you have broken with her, and think you are free to hoodwink
some other poor creature. But you will find that you have chosen the
wrong person. And it's no excuse for you her being a little--a
little--not so bright as some girls, and not so good-looking. Oh, it's
enough to make any girl loathe her own looks! You mustn't suppose you
can come here red-handed--yes, it's the same as a murder, and any true
girl would say so--and tell me you care for me. No, Walter Ashley, I
haven't fallen so low as that, though I have the disgrace of your
acquaintance. And I hope--I hope--if you don't like my smoking, and
offering you cocktails, and talking the way I have, it will be a
lesson to you. And yes!--I will say it! If it will add to your
misery to know that I did respect you very much, and thought
everything--very highly--of you, and might have answered you very
differently before, when you were free to tell me that--now
I have nothing but the utmost abhorrence--and--disapproval of you.
And--and-- Oh, I don't see how you can be so hateful!" She hides her
face in her hands and rushes from the room, overturning several chairs
in her course toward the door. Ashley remains staring after her, while
a succession of impetuous rings make themselves heard from the street
door. There is a sound of opening it, and then a flutter of skirts and
anxieties, and Miss Garnett comes running into the room.
                                  VI
                       MISS GARNETT, MR. ASHLEY
Miss Garnett, to the maid hovering in the doorway: "Yes, I must have
left it here, for I never missed it till I went to pay my fare in the
motor-bus, and tried to think whether I had the exact dime, and if I
hadn't whether the conductor would change a five-dollar bill or not,
and then it rushed into my mind that I had left my purse somewhere,
and I knew I hadn't been anywhere else." She runs from the mantel to
the writing-desk in the corner, and then to the sofa, where, peering
under the tea-table, she finds her purse on the shelf. "Oh, here it
is, Nora, just where I put it when we began to talk, and I must have
gone out and left it. I--" She starts with a little shriek, in
encountering Ashley. "Oh, Mr. Ashley! What a fright you gave me! I was
just looking for my purse that I missed when I went to pay my fare in
the motor-bus, and was wondering whether I had the exact dime, or the
conductor could change a five-dollar bill, and--" She discovers, or
affects to discover, something strange in his manner. "What--what is
the matter, Mr. Ashley?"
Ashley: "I shall be glad to have you tell me--or any one."
Miss Garnett: "I don't understand. Has Isobel--"
Ashley: "Miss Garnett, did you know I was engaged?"
Miss Garnett: "Why, yes; I was just going to congrat--"
Ashley: "Well, don't, unless you can tell me whom I am engaged to."
Miss Garnett: "Why, aren't you engaged to Emily Fray?"
Ashley: "Not the least in the world."
Miss Garnett, in despair: "Then what have I done? Oh, what a
fatal, fatal scrape!" With a ray of returning hope: "But she told me
herself that she was engaged! And you were together so much, last
summer!" Desperately: "Then if she isn't engaged to you, whom is she
engaged to?"
Ashley: "On general principles, I shouldn't know, but in this
particular instance I happen to know that she is engaged to Owen
Brooks. They were a great deal more together last summer."
Miss Garnett, with conviction: "So they were!" With returning doubt:
"But why didn't she say so?"
Ashley: "I can't tell you; she may have had her reasons, or she may
not. Can you possibly tell me, in return for my ignorance, why the
fact of her engagement should involve me in the strange way it seems
to have done with Miss Ramsey?"
Miss Garnett, with a burst of involuntary candor: "Why, I did
that. Or, no! What's she been doing?"
Ashley: "Really, Miss Garnett--"
Miss Garnett: "How can I tell you anything, if you don't tell me
everything? You wouldn't wish me to betray confidence?"
Ashley: "No, certainly not. What was the confidence?"
Miss Garnett: "Well-- But I shall have to know first what she's been
doing. You must see that yourself, Mr. Ashley." He is silent. "Has
she--has Isobel--been behaving--well, out of character?"
Ashley: "Very much indeed."
Miss Garnett: "I expected she would." She fetches a thoughtful sigh,
and for her greater emotional convenience she sinks into an easy-chair
and leans forward. "Oh dear! It is a scrape." Suddenly and
imperatively: "Tell me exactly what she did, if you hope for any help
whatever."
Ashley: "Why, she offered me a cocktail--"
Miss Garnett: "Oh, how good! I didn't suppose she would dare! Well?"
Ashley: "And she smoked cigarettes--"
Miss Garnett: "How perfectly divine! And what else?"
Ashley, coldly: "May I ask why you admire Miss Ramsey's behaving out
of character so much? I think the smoking made her rather faint, and--"
Miss Garnett: "She would have let it kill her! Never tell me that
girls have no moral courage!"
Ashley: "But what--what was the meaning of it all?"
Miss Garnett, thoughtfully: "I suppose if I got her in for it, I
ought to get her out, even if I betray confidence."
Ashley: "It depends upon the confidence. What is it?"
Miss Garnett: "Why-- But you're sure it's my duty?"
Ashley: "If you care what I think of her--"
Miss Garnett: "Oh, Mr. Ashley, you mustn't think it strange of
Isobel, on my bended knees you mustn't! Why, don't you see? She was
just doing it to disgust you!"
Ashley: "Disgust me?"
Miss Garnett: "Yes, and drive you back to Emily Fray."
Ashley: "Drive me ba--"
Miss Garnett: "If she thought you were engaged to Emily, when you
were coming here all the time, and she wasn't quite sure that she
hated to have you, don't you see it would be her duty to sacrifice
herself, and-- Oh, I suppose she's heard everything up there, and--"
She catches herself up and runs out of the room, leaving Ashley to
await the retarded descent of skirts which he hears on the stairs
after the crash of the street door has announced Miss Garnett's
escape. He stands with his back to the mantel, and faces Miss Ramsey
as she enters the room.
                                 VII
                         MISS RAMSEY, ASHLEY
Miss Ramsey, with the effect of cold surprise: "Mr. Ashley? I
thought I heard-- Wasn't Miss Garnett--"
Ashley: "She was. Did you think it was the street door closing on
me?"
Miss Ramsey: "How should I know?" Then, courageously: "No, I didn't
think it was. Why do you ask?" She moves uneasily about the room, with
an air of studied inattention.
Ashley: "Because if you did, I can put you in the right, though I
can't restore Miss Garnett's presence by my absence."
Miss Ramsey: "You're rather--enigmatical." A ring is heard; the maid
pauses at the doorway. "I'm not at home, Nora." To Mr. Ashley: "It
seems to be very close--"
Ashley: "It's my having been smoking."
Miss Ramsey: "Your having?" She goes to the window and tries to
lift it.
Ashley: "Let me." He follows her to the window, where he stands
beside her.
Miss Ramsey: "Now, she's seen me! And you here with me. Of course--"
Ashley: "I shouldn't mind. But I'm so sorry if--and I will go."
Miss Ramsey: "You can't go now--till she's round the corner. She'll
keep looking back, and she'll think I made you."
Ashley: "But haven't you? Aren't you sending me back to Miss Fray to
tell her that I must keep my engagement, though I care nothing for
her, and care all the world for you? Isn't that what you want me to
do?"
Miss Ramsey: "But you're not engaged to her! You just--"
Ashley: "Just what?"
Miss Ramsey, desperately: "You wish me to disgrace myself forever in
your eyes. Well, I will; what does it matter now? I heard you telling
