have found it oppressive this July day.  By the way, what day does it
happen to be?"
Halkett said:
"It happens to be the last day of July.  I have an idea that several
billion other people are destined to remember these last few days of
July, 1914, as long as they live."
"Why?" inquired the American curiously.
"Because, within these last few days, Austria has declared war on
Servia, Russia has already ordered partial mobilization, Germany has
sent her an ultimatum, and will back it up tomorrow."
"What!  How do you know?"
"You don’t mean to ask me that, do you?" said Halkett pleasantly.
"No, of course not——"  Warner gazed straight ahead of him as he drove;
his altered features had become gravely expressionless.  After a moment
he said:
"I can’t comprehend it.  Servia had agreed to everything demanded—except
that one item which she offered to arbitrate.  I can’t understand it."
Halkett said calmly:
"It is not difficult to understand.  A telegram has been suppressed—the
only telegram which could now prevent war."  He removed his straw hat,
took from the lining a strip of semi-transparent paper, and read aloud
the minute handwriting:
"The German government has published several telegrams which the Emperor
of Russia exchanged with Emperor William.  Among these telegrams,
nevertheless, is one which was not published—a dispatch from His Russian
Majesty, dated July 29, 1914, containing a proposition to submit the
Austro-Servian conflict to The Hague Tribunal.
"This has an appearance of a desire in Germany to pass over in silence
the attempt to prevent the approaching collision.  In view of this, the
Minister of Foreign Affairs is authorized to publish the telegram
mentioned, of which this is the text:
"’Thanks for your conciliatory and friendly telegram. Inasmuch as the
official message presented today by your ambassador to my minister was
conveyed in a very different tone, I beg you to explain this divergency.
It would be right to give over the Austro-Servian problem to The Hague
Conference.  I trust in your wisdom and friendship.’"
"Where did you get that?" asked Warner bluntly.
"This morning at the Boule d’Argent.  A friend was kind enough to leave
it for me in a note," he added blandly.
"Do you believe it to be authentic?"
"Unfortunately, I can not question its truth."
"You think that the German government——"
"Without any doubt at all, Warner.  For her The Day is about to dawn at
last.  Her Joshua has halted the course of the sun long enough to suit
himself.  It is scheduled to rise tomorrow."
"Do you mean war?"
"I do."
"Where?"
"Well, here, in France—to mention one place."
"In France!"
"Surely, surely!"
"Invasion?"
"Exactly."
"From which way?"
Halkett shrugged:
"Does anybody now believe it will come by way of the Barrier Forts?  The
human race never has been partial to cross-country traveling; only ants
prefer it."
"You think it will come by the flank—through Belgium?"
"Ask yourself, Warner.  Is there an easier way for it to come?"
"But the treaties?"
"Nulla salus bello; necessitas no habet legem."
"Nothing dishonorable is ever necessary."
"Ah!  If nations could only agree upon the definition of that word
’honor’!  There’d be fewer wars, my friend."
"You think, if France follows Russia’s example and mobilizes, that
Germany will strike through Belgium?"
"I’m sure of it."
"What about England, then?" asked Warner bluntly.
But Halkett remained silent; and he did not repeat the question.
"After all," he said, presently, "this entire business is incredible.
Diplomacy will find a way out of it."  And, after a moment’s silence:
"You don’t think so?"
"No."
Presently Halkett turned and looked back through the gathering dusk.
"I wonder," he said, "whether they’ll get their car out tonight?"
"They’ll have to go back to Ausone for aid," said Warner.
"Do you still mean to put me up at Saïs?"
"Certainly.  You don’t expect your friends back there to assault the
inn, do you?"
"No," said Halkett, laughing.  "They don’t do things that way just yet."
Warner snapped his whip, caught the curling lash, let it free, twirled
it, and, snapped it again, whistling cheerfully a gay air from his
student days—a tune he had not thought of before in years.
"I believe," he said, frankly hopeful, "that you and I are going to have
another little party with those fellows before this matter is ended."
"I’m sure of it," said Halkett quietly.
A few moments later Warner, still whistling his joyous air, pointed
toward a cluster of tiny lights far ahead in the dark valley.
"Saïs," he said; and resumed his song blithely:
    "Gai, gai, mariez-vous!
      C’est un usage
      Fort sage.
    Gai, gai, mariez-vous,
    Le mariage est si doux!—"
"Like a bird it is!" he added ironically.
"By the way, you’re not married, are you?" inquired Halkett uneasily.
"Oh, Lord!  No!  Why the unmerited suspicion?"
"Nothing much.  I just thought that after getting you into this scrape I
shouldn’t dare face your wife."
Then they both laughed heartily.  They were already on excellent terms.
Already acquaintance was becoming an unembarrassed friendship.
Warner flourished his whip and continued to laugh:
"I have no serious use for women.  To me the normal and healthy woman is
as naïve as the domestic and blameless cat, whose first ambition is for
a mate, whose second is to be permanently and agreeably protected, and
whose ultimate aim is to acquire a warm basket by the fireside and fill
it full of kittens! ... No; I’m not married.  Don’t worry, Halkett."
He whistled another bar of his lively song:
"Women?  Ha!  By the way, I’ve a bunch of them here in Saïs, all
painting away like the devil and all, no doubt laying plans for that
fireside basket.  It’s the only thing a woman ever really thinks about,
no matter what else she pretends to be busy with.  I suppose it’s
natural; also, it’s natural for some men to shy wide of such things.
I’m one of those men.  So, Halkett, as long as you live, you need never
be afraid of offending any wife of mine!"
"Your sentiments," said Halkett, mockingly serious, "merely reveal
another bond between us.  I thank God frequently that I am a bachelor."
"Good," said Warner with emphasis.  And he chanted gayly, as he drove,
"Gai, gai, marions-nous—" in a very agreeable baritone voice, while the
lights of Saïs grew nearer and brighter among the trees below.
"I never saw a girl worth the loss of my liberty," he remarked.  "Did
you, Halkett?  And," he continued, "to be tied up to a mentally
deficient appendage with only inferior intellectual resources, and no
business or professional occupation—to be tied fast to something that
sits about to be entertained, and that does nothing except nourish
itself and clothe itself, and have babies!—It’s unthinkable, isn’t it?"
"It’s pretty awful....  Of course if a woman came along who combined
looks and intellect and professional self-sufficiency——"
"You don’t find them combined.  Take a slant at my class.  That’s the
only sort who even pretend to anything except vacuous idleness.  There
are no Portias, Halkett.  There never were.  If there were, I’d take a
chance myself, I think.  But a man who marries the young girl of today
has on his hands an utterly useless incubus.  No wonder he sometimes
makes experiments elsewhere.  No wonder he becomes a rainbow chaser. But
he’s like a caged squirrel in a wheel; the more he runs around looking
for consolation the less progress he makes.
"No, Halkett, this whole marriage business is a pitiable fizzle.  Until
both parties to a marriage contract are financially independent,
intellectually self-sufficient, and properly equipped to earn their own
livings by a business or a trade or a profession—and until, if a mistake
has been made, escape from an ignoble partnership is made legally
easy—marriage will remain the sickly, sentimental, pious fraud which a
combination of ignorance, superstition, custom, and orthodoxy have made
it.
"I’m rather eloquent on marriage, don’t you think so?"
"Superbly!" said Halkett, laughing.  "But, do you know, Warner, your
very eloquence betrays the fact that you have thought as much about it
as the unfortunate sex you have so eloquently indicted."
"What’s that?" demanded Warner wrathfully.
"I’m sorry to say it, but you are exactly the sort of man to fall with a
tremendous flop."
"If ever I fall——"
"You fell temporarily this afternoon."
"With that painted, grey-eyed——"
"Certainly, with the girl Philippa.  Come, old chap, you were out with
her a long while!  What did you two talk about?  Love?"
"No, you idiot——"
"You didn’t even mention the word ’love’?  Be honest, old chap!"
Warner began to speak, checked himself.
"Didn’t you or she even mention the subject?" persisted Halkett with
malicious delight.
But Warner was too angry to speak, and the Englishman’s laughter rang
out boyishly under the stars. To look at them one would scarcely believe
they had been a target for bullets within the hour.
"You don’t suppose," began Warner, "that——"
"No, no!" cried Halkett.  "—Not with that girl. I’m merely proving my
point.  You’re too eloquent concerning women not to have spent a good
deal of time in speculating about them.  You even speculated concerning
Philippa.  The man who mourns the scarcity of Portias wouldn’t be likely
to care for one if he met her.  You’re just the man to fall in love with
everything you denounce in a girl.  And I have no doubt I shall live to
witness that sorrowful spectacle."
Warner had to laugh.
"You are rather a terrifying psychologist," he said. "You almost make me
believe I have a streak of romance in me."
"Oh, we all have that, Warner.  We call it by other names—cleverness,
logic, astuteness, intelligence—but we all have it in us, and it is
revealed in every man who marries a woman for love....  Believe me, no
normal man ever lived who was not, at some brief moment in his life, in
love with some woman.  Maybe he ignored it and it never came again;
maybe he strangled it and went on about more serious business; maybe it
died a natural but early death.  But once, before he died, he must have
had a faint, brief glimpse of it.  And that was the naissance of the
latent germ of romance in him—ephemeral, perhaps, but inevitably to be
born before it died."
Warner waved his whip and snapped it maliciously:
"So you have been in love, have you?"
"Why?  Because I, also, am suspiciously eloquent?"
"That’s the reason—according to you."
Halkett smiled slightly.
"Perhaps I have been," he said....  "Hello!  Is this your inn?" as they
drew up before the lighted windows of a two-story building standing
close to the left-hand edge of the highway, under the stars.
"Here we are at the Golden Peach," nodded Warner, as the door opened and
a smiling peasant lad came out with a: "Bon soir, Monsieur Warner!  Bon
soir, messieurs!"  And he took the horse’s head while they descended.
That night, lying awake on his bed in the Inn of the Golden Peach,
Halkett heard the heavy rush of a southbound automobile passing under
his window with the speed of an express train.
And he wondered whether the spongy morass by the little brook still held
the long, grey touring car imprisoned.
He got up, went to his window and leaned out.  Far away down the road
the tail lamps of the machine twinkled, dwindled to sparks, and were
engulfed in the invisible.
"More trouble south of me," he thought.  But he returned to his bed and
lay there, tranquil in the knowledge that when he started south alone on
the morrow the envelope would not be on his person.
After a while he rose again, walked to the door connecting his room with
Warner’s, and opened it cautiously.
"I’m awake," said Warner in a low voice.
"Did you hear that car?"
"Yes.  Was it the one that chased us?"
"I only guess so.  Listen, Warner!  When I go south tomorrow, what are
you going to do with that envelope until I send a man back for it?"
"I’ve thought it all out, old chap.  I shall take one of my new
canvases, lay the envelope on it, cover envelope and canvas with a
quarter of an inch of Chinese White, and when the enamel is dry I shall
paint on it.  By the way, did you do your telephoning to your
satisfaction?"
"Entirely, thank you."
"You got your man?"
"I did," said Halkett.  "He’s on his way here now. Good night.  I’ll
sleep like a fox, old chap!"
"Good night," said Warner cheerily, enamored with his invention for the
safety of the envelope, as well as with the entire adventure.
That night, while they both slept, far away southward, on a lonely road
in the Vosges, the car which had rushed by under their windows was now
drawn up on the edge of the road.
Four men sat in it, waiting.
Just as dawn broke, what they awaited came up out of the south—a far,
faint rattle announced it, growing rapidly louder; and a motor cyclist,
riding without lights, shot out of the grey obscurity, trailing a
comet’s tail of dust.
Head-on he came, like a streak, caught sight suddenly of the motionless
car and of four men standing up in it, ducked and flattened out over his
handlebars as four revolvers poured forth streams of fire.
Motor cycle and rider swerved into the ditch with a crash; the latter,
swaying wide in his saddle, was hurled a hundred feet further through
the air, landing among the wild flowers on the bank above.
He was the man to whom Halkett had telephoned.
He seemed to be very young—an Englishman—with blood on his fair hair,
and his blue eyes partly open.
They searched him thoroughly; and when they could find nothing more they
lifted him between two of them; two others carried the wrecked motor
cycle out across the fields toward the slope of a wooded mountain.
After ten minutes or so, two of the men returned to the car, drew a
couple of short, intrenching spades from the tool box, and went away
again across the fields toward the misty woods.
A throstle in a thorn bush had been singing all the while.
                              *CHAPTER V*
Halkett had not slept well; all night long in the garden under his
window the nightingales had been very noisy.  When he slept, sinister
dreams had assailed him; cocks crowed at sunrise, cowbells tinkled,
outside his drawn blinds a refreshed and garrulous world was awakening;
and the happy tumult awoke him, too.
He was bathed, shaved, and dressed, and downstairs before Warner awoke
at all; and he began to rove about the place which, by daylight, did not
look at all like what he had imagined it to be the night before.
The Inn of the Golden Peach was one of those cream-tinted stucco houses
built into and around a series of haphazard garden walls which inclosed
flower and fruit gardens, cow-barns and stables.  Its roof and wall
copings were covered with red tiles, weather-faded to a salmon tint; two
incredible climbing rosebushes nearly covered the front with delicate,
salmon-pink blossoms, and, in the rear, flowers bloomed along
stone-edged borders—masses of white clove pinks, rockets, poppies,
heliotrope, reseda, portulaca, and pansies—a careless riot of color,
apparently, yet set with that instinctive good taste which seldom fails
in France and is common alike to aristocrat and peasant.
Beyond the strawberry beds were fruit trees, peach, cherry, plum, and
apricot—the cherries hanging ripe and deeply crimson among dark green
leaves, the apricots already golden, peaches and plums delicately
painted with a bloom which promised approaching maturity.
Everywhere the grass grew thick and intensely green, though it was not
very neatly kept; water ran out of a stone trough and made a dancing
little rivulet over a bed of artificially set stones among which grew
ferns. Beyond stood a trellised summerhouse, with iron tables and chairs
painted green.
On the edge of the watering trough, Halkett seated himself in the sun.
An immaculate tiger cat sat on the garden walk a few paces away,
polishing her countenance with the velvet side of one forepaw, and
occasionally polishing the paw with a delicate pink tongue.
Once or twice she looked at Halkett without any apparent interest; now
and then she glanced up with more interest at the side of the house
where, under the kitchen door, in a big basket-cage, a jay hopped about,
making a scuffling noise among his cracked maize and rye straw.
However, the cat proved entirely susceptible to flattery, responded
graciously to polite advances, and presently relapsed into a purring
doze on his knee.
It was very still in the garden, too early even for butterflies to be
abroad.  The kitchen door remained closed; smoke had just begun to rise
from one chimney.
In the peaceful silence nothing stirred; there was no breeze, no sound
save the trickle of water among fern fronds.
Then, from nowhere apparently, into this golden tranquillity came a
nun—no, not a nun, but one of those Grey Daughters of St. Vincent de
Paul, who have "for their monastery the houses of the sick, for a cell a
hired room, for a cloister the city streets, for a veil modesty."
In her white cornette, or pointed coiffe, with its starched wings, her
snowy collarette, wide sleeves, grey apron, and grey-blue habit, she
became instantly the medieval incarnation which vitalized the old garden
and the ancient wall, so that the centuries they had witnessed were born
again there where their spirit had returned, clothed in the costume
which they had known so well.
The soeur de charité had not seen Halkett; she passed lightly,
swiftly, along the flowering borders with scissors and ozier basket,
bending here to gather the white clove pinks, kneeling there to snip off
pansies.
And it was only when the grey cat leaped from Halkett’s knees and
advanced toward the Sister of Charity with a little mew of recognition
that she turned, still kneeling, caught sight of Halkett, and remained
looking at him, one delicate white hand resting on the purring cat.
Halkett was on his feet, his hat under his arm, now, and he bade her
good-morning with that pleasant deference which marks such men
immediately for what they are.
She smiled faintly from the transparent shadow of her white cornette.
"Flowers are all so lovely," she said, "it is never easy for me to
choose.  They are for my school, you know?"—with a slight rising
inflection.  But evidently this young man did not know, so she added, "I
am Sister Eila," and smiled again, when it was apparent that he had
never heard of Sister Eila.
"I am English," he said, "—traveling through France on business.  I
arrived last night to visit my friend, Mr. Warner.  My name is Halkett."
She nodded and snipped a few more pansies.
"May I help you, Sister?  If you don’t mind telling me what flowers you
desire——"
"Merci, Monsieur.  Pansies, if you please.  The children see odd little
faces in their petals, and it amuses them."
Down on his knees beside the border, the grey cat seated between them,
Halkett picked pansies and laid them in rows in her ozier basket.
"Of course," he said, "your school is a charity school."
"For the poor, of course.  My children are those of the quarrymen."
"You do not teach them alone?"
"Oh, no.  Sister Félicité teaches with me.  And then, of course, we are
together when, during the vacation, hospital service is required of us."
"Is there a quarry hospital?"
"Yes, Monsieur.  It is more like an ambulance where first aid is given.
The hospital at Ausone takes our sick."  Still kneeling, she looked up
at the slender fruit trees beyond, and the sunlight fell full on the
most exquisite young face that Halkett had ever seen. Whether it was her
unexpected beauty that gave him a little shock, or the sudden idea that
in her features there was a haunting resemblance to somebody he had
seen, perhaps met, he did not know.
Sometimes in the first glimpse of a face we recognize the living
substance of her to whom we have aspired, and of whom we have dreamed.
But she has never existed except in the heart which created her until we
unconsciously endow another with all we dreamed she was.
He went on gathering flowers to fill her basket.
"I wonder," she said musingly, "whether any of those apricots are ripe.
One of my children is convalescent, and she really needs a little fresh
fruit."
So Halkett rose, threaded his way through the flowers, and looked
carefully among the branches for a ripe apricot.  He found two, and
Sister Eila laid them together in the corner of her basket, which was
now full.
He walked with her to the garden door, which was set solidly under an
arch in the wall.  There she looked up, smiling, as she said in English:
"Is not our country of Saïs very lovely, Mr. Halkett?"
"Yes, indeed, it is," he replied, also smiling in his surprise.  "But,
Sister Eila, you are English, are you not?"
"Irish—but brought up in France." ... Her face grew graver; she said
very quietly: "Is it true there is any danger of war?  The children are
talking; it is evident that the quarrymen must be discussing such things
among themselves.  I thought I’d ask you——"
"I’m afraid," he said, "that there is some slight chance of war,
Sister."
"Here in France?"
"Yes—here."
"It is Germany, of course?"
"Yes, the menace comes from—" he cast a quick glance toward the east,
"—from over there.... Perhaps diplomacy may regulate the affair.  It is
always best to hope."
"Yes, it is best always—to hope," she said serenely.... "Thank you, Mr.
Halkett.  Mr. Warner is a friend of mine.  Perhaps you may have time to
visit our school with him."
"I’ll come," said Halkett.
She smiled and nodded; he opened the heavy green door for her, and
Sister Eila went out of the golden world of legend, leaving the flowers
and young trees very still behind her.
                              *CHAPTER VI*
Warner discovered him there in the garden, seated once more on the stone
trough, the grey cat dozing on his knees.
"Hello, old chap!" he said cheerfully.  "Did you sleep?"
Halkett gave him a pleasant, absent-minded glance:
"Not very well, thanks."
"Nor I.  Those damn nightingales kept me awake. Has your man arrived?"
"Not yet.  I don’t quite understand why."
Warner sauntered up and caressed the cat.
"Well, Ariadne, how goes it with you?" he inquired, gently rubbing her
dainty ears, an attention enthusiastically appreciated, judging by the
increased purring.
"Ariadne, eh?" inquired Halkett.
"Yes—her lover forsook her—although she doesn’t seem to mind as much as
the original lady did.  No doubt she knows there’s a Bacchus somewhere
on his way to console her."
The other nodded in his pleasant, absent-minded fashion.  After a moment
he said:
"I’ve been talking to a Sister of Charity here in the garden."
"Sister Félicité?"
"No; Sister Eila."
"Isn’t she the prettiest thing!" exclaimed Warner. "And she’s as good as
she is beautiful.  We’re excellent friends, Sister Eila and I.  I’ll
take you over to her school after breakfast."
"It’s the Grey Sisterhood, isn’t it?"
"St. Vincent de Paul’s Filles de la Charité; not the Grey Nuns, you
know."
"I supposed not.  Of course these nuns are not cloistered."
"They are not even nuns.  They don’t take perpetual vows."
Halkett looked up quickly.
"What!" he demanded.
"No.  The vows of these Sisters of Charity are simple vows.  They renew
them annually.  Still, it is a strict order.  Their novitiate is five
years’ probation."
"Oh!  I supposed——"  He remained silent, his thoughtful gaze fixed on
space.
"Yes, our brave gentle Sisters of Charity remain probationers for five
years, and then every year they renew their vows of chastity, poverty,
and obedience. The annual vows are taken some time in March, I believe.
They have no cloister, you know, other than a room in some poor street
near the school or hospital where they work.  Did you ever hear the
wonderful story of their Order?"
"No."
So Warner sketched for him the stainless history of a true saint, and of
the Filles de St. Vincent de Paul through the centuries of their
existence; and Halkett listened unstirring, his handsome head bent, his
hand resting motionless on Ariadne’s head.
A few minutes later a fresh-faced peasant girl, in scarlet bodice and
velvet-slashed black skirts, came out into the garden bearing a tray
with newly baked rolls, new butter, and café-au-lait for two.  She
placed it on the iron table in the little summerhouse, curtseyed to the
two young men, exchanged a gay greeting with Warner, and trotted off
again in her chaussons—the feminine, wholesome, and admirable symbol
of all that is fascinating in the daughters of France.
Halkett placed Ariadne on the grass, rose, and followed Warner to the
arbor; Ariadne tagged after them, making gentle but pleased remarks.
There was an extra saucer, which Warner filled with milk and set before
the cat.
"You know," he said to Halkett, "I like to eat by myself—or with some
man.  So I have my meals served out here, or in the tap room when it
rains.  The Harem feeds itself in the dining-room——"
"The what?"
"My class, I mean.  An irreverent friend of mine in Paris dubbed it ’the
Harem,’ and the title stuck—partly, I suppose, because of its outrageous
absurdity, partly because it’s a terse and convenient title."
"They don’t call it that, do they?"
"I should say not!  And I hope they don’t know that others do.  Anyway,
the Harem dawdles over its meals and talks art talk at the long table
where Madame Arlon—the Patronne—presides.  You’ll have to meet them."
"Do you criticise your—Harem—this morning?" inquired Halkett, laughing.
"Yes; I give them their daily pabulum.  Do you want to come about with
me and see how it’s done? After the distribution of pap I usually pitch
my own umbrella somewhere away from their vicinity and make an hour’s
sketch.  After that I paint seriously for the remainder of the day.  But
I’ll take you over to Sister Eila’s school this morning if you like."
He fished out a black caporal cigarette and scratched a match.
Halkett, his cigarette already lighted, lounged sideways on the green
iron chair, his preoccupied gaze fixed on Ariadne.
"Annual vows," he said, "mean, of course, that a Sister renews such vows
voluntarily every year; does it not, Warner?"
"Yes."
"They usually do renew their vows, I suppose."
"Almost always, I believe."
"But—a Sister of Charity could return to the—the world, if she so
desired?"
"It could be done, but it seldom is, I understand. The order is an
admirable one; a very wonderful order, Halkett.  They are careful about
admitting their novices, but what they regard as qualifications might
not be so considered in a cloistered order like the Ursalines.  The
novitiate is five years, I believe; except for the head of the order in
Paris, no grades and no ranks exist; all Sisters are alike and on the
same level."  He smiled.  "If anything could ever convert me to
Catholicism, I think it might be this order and the man who founded it,
Saint Vincent de Paul, wisest and best of all who have ever tried to
follow Christ."
Ariadne had evidently centered her gentle affections upon the new
Englishman; she trotted at his heels as he sauntered about in the
garden; she showed off for his benefit, playfully patting a grasshopper
into flight, frisking up trees only to cling for a moment, ears
flattened, and slide back to earth again; leaping high after lazy white
butterflies which hovered over the heliotrope, but always returning to
tag after Halkett where he roamed about, a burnt-out cigarette between
his fingers, his eyes dreaming, lost in speculations beyond the ken of
any cat.
The Harem came trooping into the garden, presently, shepherded by
Warner.  They all carried full field kit—folding easels, stools, and
umbrellas slung upon their several and feminine backs; a pair of clamped
canvases in one hand, color-box in the other.
Halkett was presented to them all.  There was Miss Alameda Golden, from
California, large, brightly colored, and breezy; there was Miss Mary
Davis, mouse-tinted, low-voiced, who originated in Brooklyn; there was
Miss Jane Post, of Chicago, restlessly intense and intellectually
curious concerning all mundane phenomena, from the origin of
café-au-lait to the origin of species; and there was Miss Nancy Lane, of
New York, a dark-eyed opportunist and an observer of man—sometimes
individually, always collectively.  And there was Miss Peggy Brooks,
cosmopolitan, sister of Madame de Moidrey who lived in a big house among
the hills across the meadows—the Château des Oiseaux, prettily named
because the protection and encouragement of little birds had been the
immemorial custom of its lordly proprietors.
And so the Harem, fully equipped to wrestle with the giant, Art, filed
out of the quiet garden and across the meadows by the little river
Récollette, where were haystacks, freshly erected and fragrant, which
very unusual subject they had unanimously chosen for their morning’s
crime.
To perpetrate it upon canvas they pitched their white umbrellas, tripod
easels, and sketching stools; then each maiden, taking a determined grip
upon her charcoal, squinted, so to speak, in chorus at the hapless
haystacks.  And the giant, Art, trembled in the seclusion of the
ewigkeit.
Warner regarded them gloomily; Halkett, who had disinterred a pipe from
his pockets, stood silently beside him, loading it.
"They’ll paint this morning, and after luncheon," said Warner.  "After
dinner they all get into an omnibus and drive to Ausone to remain
overnight, and spend tomorrow in street sketching.  I insist on their
doing this once every month.  When they return with their sketches, I
give them a general criticism."
"Will these young ladies ever really amount to anything?" inquired
Halkett.
"Probably never.  Europe, the British Isles, and the United States are
dotted all over with similar and feminine groups attempting haystacks.
The sum-total of physical energy thus expended must be enormous—like the
horsepower represented by Niagara. But it creates no ripple upon the
intellectual serenity of the thinking world.  God alone knows why women
paint haystacks.  I do my best to switch them toward other phenomena."
The rural postman on his bicycle, wearing képi and blue blouse, came
pedaling along the highway.  When he saw Warner he saluted and got off
his wheel.
"Letters, Grandin?"
"Two, Monsieur Warner."
Warner took them.
"Eh, bien?" he inquired, lowering his voice; "et la guerre?"
"Monsieur Warner, the affair is becoming very serious."
"What is the talk in Ausone?"
"People are calm—too calm.  A little noise, now, a little gesticulation,
and the affair would seem less ominous to me—like the Algeciras matter
and the Schnaeble incident before that—Monsieur may remember?"
"I know.  It is like the hush before a tempest.  The world is too still,
the sunlight too perfect."
"There seems to me," said the little postman, "a curious unreality about
yesterday and today—something in the cloudless peace overhead that
troubles men."
Being no more and no less poet than are all French peasants, this
analysis sufficed him.  He touched his képi; the young men lifted their
hats, and the postman pedaled away down the spotless military road.
Warner glanced at the envelope in his hand; Halkett looked at it, too.
It was addressed in red ink.
"It’s for me, old chap," said the Englishman.
The other glanced up, surprised.
"Are you sure?"
"Quite—if you don’t mind trusting me."
Warner laughed and handed him the letter.
"It’s addressed very plainly to me," he said. "You’ve got your nerve
with you, Halkett."
"I have to keep it about me, old chap."
"No doubt.  And still I don’t see——"
"It’s very simple.  I sent two telephone messages last night.  One
letter should have arrived.  It has not!  The man who wrote this letter
must have gone miles last night on a motor cycle to mail it so that your
little postman should hand it to me this morning——"
"Intriguer!" interrupted Warner, still laughing. "He handed it to me!
I see you’re going to get me in Dutch before I’m rid of you."
"I don’t comprehend your Yankee slang," retorted Halkett with a slight
grin, "so if you don’t mind I’ll sit here on the grass and read my
letter.  Go on and criticize your Harem.  But before you go, lend me a
pencil.  They stole even my pencil in the Cabaret de Biribi."
Warner, amused, handed him a pencil and a pad, and strolled away toward
the industrious Harem to see what they might be perpetrating.
Halkett seated himself on the grass where, if he chose to glance up, he
had a clear view all about him. Then he opened his letter.
It was rather an odd sort of letter.  It began:
DEAR GREEN:
A red wagon, red seat, orange rumble, red mudguards, blue
steering-wheel, red bumpers, blue wheels, red engines, red varnish, red
open body, red machinery, red all over, in fact, except where it
isn’t—is for sale.
So much of this somewhat extraordinary letter Halkett very carefully and
slowly perused; then, still studying this first paragraph intently, he
wrote down on his pad the following letters in the following sequence,
numbering each letter underneath:
    R O Y G B I V S W A
    1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0
The letters represented, up to and including the letter V, the colors of
the solar spectrum in their proper sequence: red, orange, yellow, green,
blue, indigo, and violet.  The letter S, which followed the letter V,
stood for schwarz, which in German means black.  The letter W stood
for weiss, white; the letter A for argent. Every letter, therefore,
represented some color or metallic luster; and these, in turn,
represented numbers.
And now Halkett took the opening salutation in the first paragraph of
his letter—"Dear Green."  The color green being numbered 4, he found
that the fourth letter in the word "dear" was the letter R.  This he
wrote down on his pad.
Then he took the next few words: "A red wagon, red seat, orange rumble,
red——" etc.
The first and only letter in the word "A" he wrote down.  The next word
after "wagon" was "red."  The color red indicated the figure 1.  So he
next wrote down the first letter of the word "wagon," which is W.
Then came the word "seat."  The word "orange" followed it.  The color
orange indicated number 2 in the spectrum sequence.  So he found that in
the word "seat" the letter E was the second letter.  This he wrote.
Very carefully and methodically he proceeded in this manner with the
first paragraph of the letter, as far as the words "all over," but not
including them or any of the words in the first paragraph which followed
them.
He had, therefore, for his first paragraph, this sequence of letters:
RAWERUSEWEVOM.
Beginning with the last letter, M, he wrote the letters again, reversing
their sequence; and he had:
MOVEWESUREWAR.
These, with commas, he easily separated into four words: "Move," "we,"
"sure," and "war."  Then, again reversing the sequence of the words, he
had two distinct sentences of two words each before him:
WAR SURE!  WE MOVE!
Always working with the numbered color key before him, taking his letter
paragraph by paragraph, he had as a final remainder the following series
of letters:
EDIHUOYERADELIARTTIAWDROWOTDEECORPSIALAC.
Reversing these, checking off the separate words, and then reversing the
entire sequence of words, he had as the complete translation of his
letter, including the first paragraph, the following information and
admonition:
"War sure.  We move.  Hide.  You are trailed. Wait word to proceed
Calais."
"War sure!"  That was easily understood.  "We move."  That meant England
was already mobilizing on land and sea.  And the remainder became plain
enough; he must stay very quietly where he was until further
instructions arrived.
He read through his notes and his letter once more, then twisted letter,
envelope, and penciled memoranda into a paper spiral, set fire to it
with a match, and leisurely lighted his pipe with it.
When the flame of the burning paper scorched his fingers, he laid it
carefully on the grass, where it was presently consumed.  The charred
remnants he ground to dust under his heel as he got up and brushed a
spear or two of hay from his clothing.
Then he looked at the Harem, all busily committing felony with brush and
colors; and, as he gazed upon them, he politely stifled a yawn.
                             *CHAPTER VII*
Warner, conscientious but not hopeful, circulated among the easels of
the Harem. Halkett strolled at his heels.
Stopping in front of Alameda Golden’s large canvas, which was all
splashed with primary and aggressive colors, he gazed, uncomforted, upon
what she had wrought there.  After a few moments he said very patiently:
"You should not use a larger canvas than I have recommended to the
class.  Mere size is not necessarily a synonym for distinction, nor does
artistic strength depend upon the muscular application of crude paint. A
considerable majority of our countrymen comprehend only what is large,
gaudy, and garrulous.  Bulk and noise only can command their attention.
On the other hand, only what is weak, vague, and incoherent appeals to
the precious—the incapables and eccentrics among us.  But there is a
sane and healthy majority: enroll yourself there, Miss Golden!
"Be honest, reticent, and modest.  If you have anything to say in paint,
say it without self-consciousness, frankly, but not aggressively.
Behave on canvas as you would bear yourself in the world at large, with
freedom but with dignity, with sincerity governed by that intelligent
consideration for truth which permits realism and idealism, both of
which are founded upon fact."
Miss Golden pouted:
"But I see haystacks this way!" she insisted.  "I see them in large
and brilliant impressions.  To me nothing looks like what it is.
Haystacks appear this way to my eyes!"
"My dear child, then paint them that way.  But the popular impression
will persist that you have painted the battle of Trafalgar."
Miss Golden wriggled on her camp chair.
"Everything," she explained, "is one monstrous, gaudy, and brutal
impression to me.  I see a million colors in everything and very little
shape to anything. I see only cosmic vigor; and I paint it with a punch.
Can’t you see all those colors in those haystacks?  To me they resemble
gigantic explosions of glorious color. And really, Mr. Warner, if I am
to be true to myself, I must paint them as I see them."
Warner, horribly discouraged, talked sanely to her for a while, then
with a pleasant nod he passed to the next easel, remarking to Halkett
under his breath:
"It’s a case for a pathologist, not for a painter."
And so for an hour he prowled about among the Harem, ministering to
neurotics, inspiring the sluggish, calming despair, gently discouraging
self-complacency.
"Always," he said, "we must remain students, because there is no such
thing as mastery in any art. If ever we believe we have attained
mastery, then our progress ceases; and we do not even remain where we
are; we retrograde—and swiftly, too.
"The life work of the so-called ’master’ is passed only in solving newer
problems.  There is no end to the problems, there is an end only to our
lives.
"Look at the matter in that way, not as a race toward an attainable
goal, nor as an eternally hopeless effort in a treadmill; but as a sane
and sure and intelligent progress from one wonder-chamber to a chamber
still more wonderful—locked rooms which contain miracles, and which open
only when we find the various keys which fit their locks....
"That is all for this morning, young ladies."
He lifted his hat, turned, and strolled away across the meadow, Halkett
at his side.
"Some lecture!" he commented with a faint grin.
"It’s sound," said Halkett.
"I do the best I can with them.  One might suppose I know how to paint,
by the way I pitch into those poor girls.  Yet, I myself never pick up a
brush and face my canvas but terror seizes me, and my own ignorance of
all I ought to know scares me almost to death.  It’s not modesty; I can
paint as well as many, better than many.  But, oh, the long, long way
there is to travel!  The stars are very far away, Halkett."
He pitched his easel, secured a canvas, took a freshly-set palette and
brushes from his color-box, and, still standing, went rapidly about his
business, which was to sketch in an impression of what lay before him.
Halkett, watching him over his shoulder, saw the little river begin to
glimmer on the canvas, saw a tender golden light grow and spread,
bathing distant hills; saw the pale azure of an arching sky faintly
tinting with reflections the delicate green of herbage still powdered
with the morning dew.
"This is merely a note," remarked Warner, painting away leisurely but
steadily.  "Some day I may pose my models somewhere outdoors under
similar weather conditions; and you may see dragoons in their saddles,
carbines poised, the sunlight enveloping horses and men—or perhaps a
line of infantry advancing in open order with shrapnel exploding in
their faces.... Death in the summer sunshine is the most terrifying of
tragedies....  I remember once after Lule Burgas——  Never mind, I shan’t
spoil the peaceful beauty of such a morning.
"War?  War here!—In this still meadow, bathed in the heavenly
fragrance of midsummer! ... Well, Halkett, the government of any nation
which attacks another nation is criminal, and all the arguments of
church and state and diplomacy cannot change that hellish fact.
"There is only one right in any combat, only one side in any war.  And
no reasoning under the sun can invest an aggressor with that right.
"He who first draws and strikes forestalls God’s verdict."
Halkett said:
"How about your own wars?"
"Halkett, the United States is the only nation which ever entered a war
from purely sentimental reasons. It was so in the Revolution; it was so
in 1812, in the War of Secession, in Mexico, in the Cuban War.
"All our wars have been undertaken in response to armed aggression; all
were begun and carried on in defense of purely sentimental principles.
I do not say it because I am a Yankee, but our record is pretty clean,
so far, in a world which, since our birth, has accused us of ruthless
materialism."
He continued to paint for a while in silence; and when his color notes
were sufficiently complete for his purpose, and when the Harem had filed
before the canvas and had adoringly inspected it, Warner packed up his
kit, and, taking the wet canvas, walked with Halkett back to the Golden
Peach.
There Halkett was made acquainted with Madame Arlon, the stout, smiling
proprietress of the inn, who sturdily refused to believe that war was
possible, and who explained why to Halkett with animation while Warner
went indoors to deposit his sketches in his studio.
He returned presently, saying that he would take Halkett to Sister
Eila’s school across the fields; so the two young men lighted their
pipes and strolled away together through the sunshine.
Eastward, far afield, the gay aprons and sunbonnets of the Harem still
dotted the distance with flecks of color; beyond, the Récollette
glimmered, and beyond that hazy hills rolled away southward toward the
Vosges country.
Halkett looked soberly into the misty east.
"It won’t come from that direction," he said, half to himself.
Warner glanced up, understood, and sauntered on in silence.
"By the way," remarked the Englishman, "I shall stay here tonight."
"I’m very glad," returned Warner cordially.
"So am I, Warner.  Ours is an agreeable—acquaintance."
"It amounts to a little more than that, doesn’t it?"
"Yes.  It’s a friendship, I hope."
"I hope so."
After a moment he added laughingly:
"I’ve fixed up your bally envelope for you."
"How?"
"Covered it with a thick, glossy layer of Chinese white.  I put in a
dryer.  In a day or two I shall make a pretty little picture on it.  And
nobody on earth could suspect that embedded under the paint and varnish
of my canvas your celebrated document reposes."
They took a highway to the left, narrow and tree-shaded.
"When do you get the newspapers here?" inquired Halkett.
"After lunch, usually.  The Petit Journal d’Ausone arrives then.
Nobody bothers with any Paris papers. But I think I shall subscribe,
now....  There’s the school, just ahead."
It was a modern and very plain two-storied building of stone and white
stucco, covered with new red tiles.  A few youthful vines were beginning
to climb gratefully toward the lower window sills; young linden trees
shaded it.  A hum, like the low, incessant murmur of a hive, warned them
as they approached that the children were reciting in unison; and they
halted at the open door.
Inside the big, clean room, the furniture of which was a stove and a
score or more of desks, two dozen little girls, neatly but very poorly
dressed, stood beside their desks reciting.  On a larger desk stood a
glass full of flowers which Halkett recognized; and beside this desk,
slenderly erect, he saw Sister Eila, facing the children, her white
hands linked behind her back.
Seated behind the same desk was another Sister—a buxom one with the
bright, clear coloring of a healthy peasant—more brilliant, even, for
the white wimple, collarette, and wide-winged headdress which seemed to
accent the almost riotous tint of physical health.
The childish singsong presently ceased; Sister Eila turned pensively,
took a step or two, lifted her eyes, and beheld Halkett and Warner at
the doorway.
"Oh!" she exclaimed.  "Please come in, Messieurs. I have been wondering
whether Mr. Warner would bring you before luncheon....  Sister Félicité,
this is Monsieur Halkett, who so amiably aided me to gather my bouquet
this morning."
Sister Félicité became all animation and vigor; she was cordial to
Halkett, greeted Warner with the smiling confidence of long
acquaintance.
It lacked only a few minutes to noon, and so lessons were suspended, and
the children put through one or two drills for Halkett’s benefit.
Out in the kitchen a good, nourishing broth was simmering for them, and
Sister Eila slipped away during the brief exhibition to prepare
twenty-four bowls and spoons and tartines for these ever-hungry little
children of the poor, orphaned for the most part, or deserted, or having
parents too poor to feed them.
At noon Sister Félicité dismissed the school; and the little girls
formed in line very demurely and filed off to the kitchen.
"What a delicious odor!" exclaimed Halkett, nose in the air.
Sister Félicité sniffed the soup.
"We do our best," she said.  "The poor little things fatten here, God be
praised."  And, to Warner, in her vigorous, alert manner: "What is all
this talk concerning war?  The children prattle about it.  They must
have heard such gossip among the quarry people."
Warner said:
"It begins to look rather serious, Sister."
"Is it Germany again?"
"I fear so."
Sister Félicité’s pink cheeks flushed:
"Is it the noisy boaster who rules those Germans who would bring the
sword upon us again?  Is there not enough of barbaric glory in his
Empire for him and his that he should invade the civilized world to seek
for more?  It is a vile thing for any man, be he ruler or subject, to
add one featherweight to the crushing burden of the world’s misery!"
"To declare war is the heaviest of all responsibilities," admitted
Warner.
"Is it already declared?"
"No.  That is to say, Austria has declared war against Servia, Russia is
mobilizing, and Germany has warned her."
"Is that an excuse for anybody to attack France?"
"Russia is mobilizing, Sister," he repeated meaningly.
"What then?"
"France must follow."
"And then?"
Warner shrugged his shoulders.
Sister Eila came out, nodding to Sister Félicité, who usually presided
at the lunch hour: and the latter went away with Warner toward the
kitchen, still plying the American with questions.  Sister Eila bent her
head, inhaled the perfume of the flowers on her desk, and then looked up
at Halkett.
"Don’t you ever lunch?" he asked.
"Yes; I tasted the soup.  You lunch at one at the inn."
"I suppose so.  What a charming country this is—this little hamlet of
Saïs!  Such exquisite peace and stillness I have seldom known."
Sister Eila’s eyes grew vague; she looked out through the sunny doorway
across the fields towards a range of low hills.  The quarries were
there.
"It is a tranquil country," she said pensively, "but there is misery,
too.  Life in the quarries is hard, and wages are not high."
"Mr. Warner tells me they are a hard lot, these quarrymen."
"There is intemperance among the quarrymen, and among the cement
workers, too: and there is roughness and violence—and crime, sometimes.
But it is a very hard métier, Mr. Halkett, and the lime dust blinds
and sears and incites a raging thirst.  God knows there is some excuse
for the drunkenness there. We who are untempted must remain gentle in
our judgments."
"I could not imagine Sister Eila judging anybody harshly."
Sister Eila looked up and laughed:
"Oh, Mr. Halkett, I have confessed to impatience too many times to
believe that I could ever acquire patience.  Only today I scolded our
children because they tore down a poster which had been pasted on the
public wall at the crossroad.  I said to them very severely, ’It is a
sin to destroy what others have paid for to advertise their
merchandise.’"
"That was a terrible scolding," admitted Halkett, laughing.
"I’ll show you the poster," volunteered Sister Eila, going over to her
desk.  Raising the lid, she picked up and displayed an advertisement.
                             *CHAPTER VIII*
Halkett looked curiously at this specimen of a poster which was already
very familiar to him.  The dead walls of northern and eastern France and
Belgium had been plastered with such advertisements for the last year or
two, extolling the Savon de Calypso.  But what had recently interested
Halkett in these soap advertisements was that posters, apparently
exactly similar, appeared to differ considerably in detail when examined
minutely.
The picture in this advertisement represented, as always, the nymph,
Calypso, seated upon the grass, looking out over the sea where the sun
shone in a cloudless sky upon a fleet of Grecian ships which were
sailing away across the blue waves of the Ægean.
Where details varied was in the number of ships in the fleet, the number
and grouping of sails, sea birds flying, of waves, and of clouds—when
there were any of the latter—the number of little white or blue or pink
blossoms in the grass, the height of the sun above the horizon line and
the number and size of its rays.
There was always at least one ship—never more than a dozen; he had
counted twenty white blossoms on some posters; varying numbers on
others, of white, of blue, or of pink, but never less than three of any
one color. Sometimes there were no sea birds.
As for the sun, sometimes it hung well above the ocean, often its yellow
circle dipped into it, and then again only the rays spread fanlike above
the horizon line.
And concerning the nymph, her pose and costume did not seem to vary at
all in the various poster specimens which he had seen; the wind was
always blowing her red hair and white, transparent scarf; she always sat
gazing laughingly seaward, one hand resting on the grass, the other
clutching a cake of soap to her bosom.
Still examining the sheet of paper, he counted the white flowers
scattered over the grass around the seated nymph.  There were ten of
them.
"Sister Eila," he said carelessly, "how many kilometers is it to the
next town south of us?  I mean by the military road."
"To Rosières-sous-Bois?"
"Yes."
"About ten kilometers by the military road."
