questions, and went over the whole ground from the beginning, we
answering. By and by he said: “Eleven hundred and six ducats. It is a
large sum.”
“Seven,” said Seppi, correcting him.
“Oh, seven, was it? Of course a ducat more or less isn’t of
consequence, but you said eleven hundred and six before.”
It would not have been safe for us to say he was mistaken, but we knew
he was. Nikolaus said, “We ask pardon for the mistake, but we meant to
say seven.”
“Oh, it is no matter, lad; it was merely that I noticed the
discrepancy. It is several days, and you cannot be expected to remember
precisely. One is apt to be inexact when there is no particular
circumstance to impress the count upon the memory.”
“But there was one, sir,” said Seppi, eagerly.
“What was it, my son?” asked the astrologer, indifferently.
“First, we all counted the piles of coin, each in turn, and all made
it the same--eleven hundred and six. But I had slipped one out, for
fun, when the count began, and now I slipped it back and said, ‘I think
there is a mistake--there are eleven hundred and seven; let us count
again.’ We did, and of course I was right. They were astonished; then I
told how it came about.”
The astrologer asked us if this was so, and we said it was.
“That settles it,” he said. “I know the thief now. Lads, the money was
stolen.”
  [Illustration: ON THE FOURTH DAY COMES THE ASTROLOGER FROM HIS
                 CRUMBLING OLD TOWER]
Then he went away, leaving us very much troubled, and wondering what
he could mean. In about an hour we found out; for by that time it was
all over the village that Father Peter had been arrested for stealing
a great sum of money from the astrologer. Everybody’s tongue was loose
and going. Many said it was not in Father Peter’s character and must be
a mistake; but the others shook their heads and said misery and want
could drive a suffering man to almost anything. About one detail
there were no differences; all agreed that Father Peter’s account of
how the money came into his hands was just about unbelievable--it
had such an impossible look. They said it might have come into the
astrologer’s hands in some such way, but into Father Peter’s, never!
Our characters began to suffer now. We were Father Peter’s only
witnesses; how much did he probably pay us to back up his fantastic
tale? People talked that kind of talk to us pretty freely and frankly,
and were full of scoffings when we begged them to believe really we had
told only the truth. Our parents were harder on us than any one else.
Our fathers said we were disgracing our families, and they commanded us
to purge ourselves of our lie, and there was no limit to their anger
when we continued to say we had spoken true. Our mothers cried over us
and begged us to give back our bribe and get back our honest names and
save our families from shame, and come out and honorably confess. And
at last we were so worried and harassed that we tried to tell the whole
thing, Satan and all--but no, it wouldn’t come out. We were hoping
and longing all the time that Satan would come and help us out of our
trouble, but there was no sign of him.
Within an hour after the astrologer’s talk with us, Father Peter was
in prison and the money sealed up and in the hands of the officers of
the law. The money was in a bag, and Solomon Isaacs said he had not
touched it since he had counted it; his oath was taken that it was the
same money, and that the amount was eleven hundred and seven ducats.
Father Peter claimed trial by the ecclesiastical court, but our other
priest, Father Adolf, said an ecclesiastical court hadn’t jurisdiction
over a suspended priest. The bishop upheld him. That settled it; the
case would go to trial in the civil court. The court would not sit for
some time to come. Wilhelm Meidling would be Father Peter’s lawyer and
do the best he could, of course, but he told us privately that a weak
case on his side and all the power and prejudice on the other made the
outlook bad.
So Marget’s new happiness died a quick death. No friends came to
condole with her, and none were expected; an unsigned note withdrew her
invitation to the party. There would be no scholars to take lessons.
How could she support herself? She could remain in the house, for the
mortgage was paid off, though the government and not poor Solomon
Isaacs had the mortgage-money in its grip for the present. Old Ursula,
who was cook, chambermaid, housekeeper, laundress, and everything else
for Father Peter, and had been Marget’s nurse in earlier years, said
God would provide. But she said that from habit, for she was a good
Christian. She meant to help in the providing, to make sure, if she
could find a way.
We boys wanted to go and see Marget and show friendliness for her, but
our parents were afraid of offending the community and wouldn’t let
us. The astrologer was going around inflaming everybody against Father
Peter, and saying he was an abandoned thief and had stolen eleven
hundred and seven gold ducats from him. He said he knew he was a thief
from that fact, for it was exactly the sum he had lost and which Father
Peter pretended he had “found.”
In the afternoon of the fourth day after the catastrophe old Ursula
appeared at our house and asked for some washing to do, and begged my
mother to keep this secret, to save Marget’s pride, who would stop this
project if she found it out, yet Marget had not enough to eat and was
growing weak. Ursula was growing weak herself, and showed it; and she
ate of the food that was offered her like a starving person, but could
not be persuaded to carry any home, for Marget would not eat charity
food. She took some clothes down to the stream to wash them, but we saw
from the window that handling the bat was too much for her strength; so
she was called back and a trifle of money offered her, which she was
afraid to take lest Marget should suspect; then she took it, saying she
would explain that she found it in the road. To keep it from being a
lie and damning her soul, she got me to drop it while she watched; then
she went along by there and found it, and exclaimed with surprise and
joy, and picked it up and went her way. Like the rest of the village,
she could tell every-day lies fast enough and without taking any
precautions against fire and brimstone on their account; but this was a
new kind of lie, and it had a dangerous look because she hadn’t had any
practice in it. After a week’s practice it wouldn’t have given her any
trouble. It is the way we are made.
I was in trouble, for how would Marget live? Ursula could not find a
coin in the road every day--perhaps not even a second one. And I was
ashamed, too, for not having been near Marget, and she so in need of
friends; but that was my parents’ fault, not mine, and I couldn’t help
it.
I was walking along the path, feeling very downhearted, when a most
cheery and tingling freshening-up sensation went rippling through me,
and I was too glad for any words, for I knew by that sign that Satan
was by. I had noticed it before. Next moment he was alongside of me
and I was telling him all my trouble and what had been happening to
Marget and her uncle. While we were talking we turned a curve and saw
old Ursula resting in the shade of a tree, and she had a lean stray
kitten in her lap and was petting it. I asked her where she got it, and
she said it came out of the woods and followed her; and she said it
probably hadn’t any mother or any friends and she was going to take it
home and take care of it. Satan said:
“I understand you are very poor. Why do you want to add another mouth
to feed? Why don’t you give it to some rich person?”
Ursula bridled at this and said: “Perhaps you would like to have it.
You must be rich, with your fine clothes and quality airs.” Then she
sniffed and said: “Give it to the rich--the idea! The rich don’t care
for anybody but themselves; it’s only the poor that have feeling for
the poor, and help them. The poor and God. God will provide for this
kitten.”
“What makes you think so?”
Ursula’s eyes snapped with anger. “Because I know it!” she said. “Not a
sparrow falls to the ground without His seeing it.”
“But it falls, just the same. What good is seeing it fall?”
Old Ursula’s jaws worked, but she could not get any word out for the
moment, she was so horrified. When she got her tongue she stormed out,
“Go about your business, you puppy, or I will take a stick to you!”
I could not speak, I was so scared. I knew that with his notions about
the human race Satan would consider it a matter of no consequence to
strike her dead, there being “plenty more”; but my tongue stood still,
I could give her no warning. But nothing happened; Satan remained
tranquil--tranquil and indifferent. I suppose he could not be insulted
by Ursula any more than the king could be insulted by a tumble-bug.
The old woman jumped to her feet when she made her remark, and did it
as briskly as a young girl. It had been many years since she had done
the like of that. That was Satan’s influence; he was a fresh breeze to
the weak and the sick, wherever he came. His presence affected even
the lean kitten, and it skipped to the ground and began to chase a
leaf. This surprised Ursula, and she stood looking at the creature and
nodding her head wonderingly, her anger quite forgotten.
“What’s come over it?” she said. “Awhile ago it could hardly walk.”
“You have not seen a kitten of that breed before,” said Satan.
Ursula was not proposing to be friendly with the mocking stranger, and
she gave him an ungentle look and retorted: “Who asked you to come here
and pester me, I’d like to know? And what do you know about what I’ve
seen and what I haven’t seen?”
“You haven’t seen a kitten with the hair-spines on its tongue pointing
to the front, have you?”
“No--nor you, either.”
“Well, examine this one and see.”
Ursula was become pretty spry, but the kitten was spryer, and she could
not catch it, and had to give it up. Then Satan said:
“Give it a name, and maybe it will come.”
Ursula tried several names, but the kitten was not interested.
“Call it Agnes. Try that.”
The creature answered to the name and came. Ursula examined its tongue.
“Upon my word, it’s true!” she said. “I have not seen this kind of a
cat before. Is it yours?”
“No.”
“Then how did you know its name so pat?”
“Because all cats of that breed are named Agnes; they will not answer
to any other.”
Ursula was impressed. “It is the most wonderful thing!” Then a shadow
of trouble came into her face, for her superstitions were aroused, and
she reluctantly put the creature down, saying: “I suppose I must let
it go; I am not afraid--no, not exactly that, though the priest--well,
I’ve heard people--indeed, many people.... And, besides, it is quite
well now and can take care of itself.” She sighed, and turned to
go, murmuring: “It is such a pretty one, too, and would be such
company--and the house is so sad and lonesome these troubled days ...
Miss Marget so mournful and just a shadow, and the old master shut up
in jail.”
“It seems a pity not to keep it,” said Satan.
Ursula turned quickly--just as if she were hoping some one would
encourage her.
“Why?” she asked, wistfully.
“Because this breed brings luck.”
“Does it? Is it true? Young man, do you know it to be true? How does it
bring luck?”
“Well, it brings money, anyway.”
Ursula looked disappointed. “Money? A cat bring money? The idea! You
could never sell it here; people do not buy cats here; one can’t even
give them away.” She turned to go.
“I don’t mean sell it. I mean have an income from it. This kind is
called the Lucky Cat. Its owner finds four silver groschen in his
pocket every morning.”
I saw the indignation rising in the old woman’s face. She was insulted.
This boy was making fun of her. That was her thought. She thrust her
hands into her pockets and straightened up to give him a piece of her
mind. Her temper was all up, and hot. Her mouth came open and let out
three words of a bitter sentence, ... then it fell silent, and the
anger in her face turned to surprise or wonder or fear, or something,
and she slowly brought out her hands from her pockets and opened them
and held them so. In one was my piece of money, in the other lay four
silver groschen. She gazed a little while, perhaps to see if the
groschen would vanish away; then she said, fervently:
“It’s true--it’s true--and I’m ashamed and beg forgiveness, O dear
master and benefactor!” And she ran to Satan and kissed his hand, over
and over again, according to the Austrian custom.
In her heart she probably believed it was a witch-cat and an agent of
the Devil; but no matter, it was all the more certain to be able to
keep its contract and furnish a daily good living for the family, for
in matters of finance even the piousest of our peasants would have more
confidence in an arrangement with the Devil than with an archangel.
Ursula started homeward, with Agnes in her arms, and I said I wished I
had her privilege of seeing Marget.
Then I caught my breath, for we were there. There in the parlor, and
Marget standing looking at us, astonished. She was feeble and pale,
but I knew that those conditions would not last in Satan’s atmosphere,
and it turned out so. I introduced Satan--that is, Philip Traum--and
we sat down and talked. There was no constraint. We were simple folk,
in our village, and when a stranger was a pleasant person we were
soon friends. Marget wondered how we got in without her hearing us.
Traum said the door was open, and we walked in and waited until she
should turn around and greet us. This was not true; no door was open;
we entered through the walls or the roof or down the chimney, or
somehow; but no matter, what Satan wished a person to believe, the
person was sure to believe, and so Marget was quite satisfied with that
explanation. And then the main part of her mind was on Traum, anyway;
she couldn’t keep her eyes off him, he was so beautiful. That gratified
me, and made me proud. I hoped he would show off some, but he didn’t.
He seemed only interested in being friendly and telling lies. He said
he was an orphan. That made Marget pity him. The water came into her
eyes. He said he had never known his mamma; she passed away while he
was a young thing; and said his papa was in shattered health, and had
no property to speak of--in fact, none of any earthly value--but he had
an uncle in business down in the tropics, and he was very well off and
had a monopoly, and it was from this uncle that he drew his support.
The very mention of a kind uncle was enough to remind Marget of her
own, and her eyes filled again. She said she hoped their two uncles
would meet, some day. It made me shudder. Philip said he hoped so, too;
and that made me shudder again.
“Maybe they will,” said Marget. “Does your uncle travel much?”
“Oh yes, he goes all about; he has business everywhere.”
And so they went on chatting, and poor Marget forgot her sorrows for
one little while, anyway. It was probably the only really bright and
cheery hour she had known lately. I saw she liked Philip, and I knew
she would. And when he told her he was studying for the ministry I
could see that she liked him better than ever. And then, when he
promised to get her admitted to the jail so that she could see her
uncle, that was the capstone. He said he would give the guards a little
present, and she must always go in the evening after dark, and say
nothing, “but just show this paper and pass in, and show it again when
you come out”--and he scribbled some queer marks on the paper and gave
it to her, and she was ever so thankful, and right away was in a fever
for the sun to go down; for in that old, cruel time prisoners were not
allowed to see their friends, and sometimes they spent years in the
jails without ever seeing a friendly face. I judged that the marks on
the paper were an enchantment, and that the guards would not know what
they were doing, nor have any memory of it afterward; and that was
indeed the way of it. Ursula put her head in at the door now and said:
“Supper’s ready, miss.” Then she saw us and looked frightened, and
motioned me to come to her, which I did, and she asked if we had told
about the cat. I said no, and she was relieved, and said please don’t;
for if Miss Marget knew, she would think it was an unholy cat and would
send for a priest and have its gifts all purified out of it, and then
there wouldn’t be any more dividends. So I said we wouldn’t tell, and
she was satisfied. Then I was beginning to say good-by to Marget, but
Satan interrupted and said, ever so politely--well, I don’t remember
just the words, but anyway he as good as invited himself to supper, and
me, too. Of course Marget was miserably embarrassed, for she had no
reason to suppose there would be half enough for a sick bird. Ursula
heard him, and she came straight into the room, not a bit pleased. At
first she was astonished to see Marget looking so fresh and rosy, and
said so; then she spoke up in her native tongue, which was Bohemian,
and said--as I learned afterward--“Send him away, Miss Marget; there’s
not victuals enough.”
Before Marget could speak, Satan had the word, and was talking back at
Ursula in her own language--which was a surprise to her, and for her
mistress, too. He said, “Didn’t I see you down the road awhile ago?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Ah, that pleases me; I see you remember me.” He stepped to her and
whispered: “I told you it is a Lucky Cat. Don’t be troubled; it will
provide.”
That sponged the slate of Ursula’s feelings clean of its anxieties,
and a deep, financial joy shone in her eyes. The cat’s value was
augmenting. It was getting full time for Marget to take some sort of
notice of Satan’s invitation, and she did it in the best way, the
honest way that was natural to her. She said she had little to offer,
but that we were welcome if we would share it with her.
We had supper in the kitchen, and Ursula waited at table. A small fish
was in the frying-pan, crisp and brown and tempting, and one could see
that Marget was not expecting such respectable food as this. Ursula
brought it, and Marget divided it between Satan and me, declining to
take any of it herself; and was beginning to say she did not care
for fish to-day, but she did not finish the remark. It was because
she noticed that another fish had appeared in the pan. She looked
surprised, but did not say anything. She probably meant to inquire of
Ursula about this later. There were other surprises: flesh and game and
wines and fruits--things which had been strangers in that house lately;
but Marget made no exclamations, and now even looked unsurprised,
which was Satan’s influence, of course. Satan talked right along, and
was entertaining, and made the time pass pleasantly and cheerfully;
and although he told a good many lies, it was no harm in him, for he
was only an angel and did not know any better. They do not know right
from wrong; I knew this, because I remembered what he had said about
it. He got on the good side of Ursula. He praised her to Marget,
confidentially, but speaking just loud enough for Ursula to hear. He
said she was a fine woman, and he hoped some day to bring her and his
uncle together. Very soon Ursula was mincing and simpering around in
a ridiculous, girly way, and smoothing out her gown and prinking at
herself like a foolish old hen, and all the time pretending she was
not hearing what Satan was saying. I was ashamed, for it showed us to
be what Satan considered us, a silly race and trivial. Satan said his
uncle entertained a great deal, and to have a clever woman presiding
over the festivities would double the attractions of the place.
“But your uncle is a gentleman, isn’t he?” asked Marget.
“Yes,” said Satan, indifferently; “some even call him a Prince, out of
compliment, but he is not bigoted; to him personal merit is everything,
rank nothing.”
My hand was hanging down by my chair; Agnes came along and licked it;
by this act a secret was revealed. I started to say, “It is all a
mistake; this is just a common, ordinary cat; the hair-needles on her
tongue point inward, not outward.” But the words did not come, because
they couldn’t. Satan smiled upon me, and I understood.
When it was dark Marget took food and wine and fruit, in a basket,
and hurried away to the jail, and Satan and I walked toward my home.
I was thinking to myself that I should like to see what the inside of
the jail was like; Satan overheard the thought, and the next moment we
were in the jail. We were in the torture-chamber, Satan said. The rack
was there, and the other instruments, and there was a smoky lantern
or two hanging on the walls and helping to make the place look dim
and dreadful. There were people there--and executioners--but as they
took no notice of us, it meant that we were invisible. A young man
lay bound, and Satan said he was suspected of being a heretic, and
the executioners were about to inquire into it. They asked the man
to confess to the charge, and he said he could not, for it was not
true. Then they drove splinter after splinter under his nails, and
he shrieked with the pain. Satan was not disturbed, but I could not
endure it, and had to be whisked out of there. I was faint and sick,
but the fresh air revived me, and we walked toward my home. I said it
was a brutal thing.
“No, it was a human thing. You should not insult the brutes by such a
misuse of that word; they have not deserved it,” and he went on talking
like that. “It is like your paltry race--always lying, always claiming
virtues which it hasn’t got, always denying them to the higher animals,
which alone possess them. No brute ever does a cruel thing--that is
the monopoly of those with the Moral Sense. When a brute inflicts pain
he does it innocently; it is not wrong; for him there is no such thing
as wrong. And he does not inflict pain for the pleasure of inflicting
it--only man does that. Inspired by that mongrel Moral Sense of his! A
sense whose function is to distinguish between right and wrong, with
liberty to choose which of them he will do. Now what advantage can he
get out of that? He is always choosing, and in nine cases out of ten he
prefers the wrong. There shouldn’t be any wrong; and without the Moral
Sense there couldn’t be any. And yet he is such an unreasoning creature
that he is not able to perceive that the Moral Sense degrades him to
the bottom layer of animated beings and is a shameful possession. Are
you feeling better? Let me show you something.”
CHAPTER VI
In a moment we were in a French village. We walked through a great
factory of some sort, where men and women and little children were
toiling in heat and dirt and a fog of dust; and they were clothed in
rags, and drooped at their work, for they were worn and half starved,
and weak and drowsy. Satan said:
“It is some more Moral Sense. The proprietors are rich, and very holy;
but the wage they pay to these poor brothers and sisters of theirs is
only enough to keep them from dropping dead with hunger. The work-hours
are fourteen per day, winter and summer--from six in the morning till
eight at night--little children and all. And they walk to and from
the pigsties which they inhabit--four miles each way, through mud and
slush, rain, snow, sleet, and storm, daily, year in and year out. They
get four hours of sleep. They kennel together, three families in a
room, in unimaginable filth and stench; and disease comes, and they die
off like flies. Have they committed a crime, these mangy things? No.
What have they done, that they are punished so? Nothing at all, except
getting themselves born into your foolish race. You have seen how
they treat a misdoer there in the jail; now you see how they treat the
innocent and the worthy. Is your race logical? Are these ill-smelling
innocents better off than that heretic? Indeed, no; his punishment is
trivial compared with theirs. They broke him on the wheel and smashed
him to rags and pulp after we left, and he is dead now, and free of
your precious race; but these poor slaves here--why, they have been
dying for years, and some of them will not escape from life for years
to come. It is the Moral Sense which teaches the factory proprietors
the difference between right and wrong--you perceive the result. They
think themselves better than dogs. Ah, you are such an illogical,
unreasoning race! And paltry--oh, unspeakably!”
Then he dropped all seriousness and just overstrained himself
making fun of us, and deriding our pride in our warlike deeds, our
great heroes, our imperishable fames, our mighty kings, our ancient
aristocracies, our venerable history--and laughed and laughed till it
was enough to make a person sick to hear him; and finally he sobered a
little and said, “But, after all, it is not all ridiculous; there is a
sort of pathos about it when one remembers how few are your days, how
childish your pomps, and what shadows you are!”
Presently all things vanished suddenly from my sight, and I knew what
it meant. The next moment we were walking along in our village; and
down toward the river I saw the twinkling lights of the Golden Stag.
Then in the dark I heard a joyful cry:
“He’s come again!”
It was Seppi Wohlmeyer. He had felt his blood leap and his spirits
rise in a way that could mean only one thing, and he knew Satan was
near, although it was too dark to see him. He came to us, and we walked
along together, and Seppi poured out his gladness like water. It was
as if he were a lover and had found his sweetheart who had been lost.
Seppi was a smart and animated boy, and had enthusiasm and expression,
and was a contrast to Nikolaus and me. He was full of the last new
mystery, now--the disappearance of Hans Oppert, the village loafer.
People were beginning to be curious about it, he said. He did not say
anxious--curious was the right word, and strong enough. No one had seen
Hans for a couple of days.
“Not since he did that brutal thing, you know,” he said.
“What brutal thing?” It was Satan that asked.
“Well, he is always clubbing his dog, which is a good dog, and his
only friend, and is faithful, and loves him, and does no one any
harm; and two days ago he was at it again, just for nothing--just
for pleasure--and the dog was howling and begging, and Theodor and I
begged, too, but he threatened us, and struck the dog again with all
his might and knocked one of his eyes out, and he said to us, ‘There,
I hope you are satisfied now; that’s what you have got for him by your
damned meddling’--and he laughed, the heartless brute.” Seppi’s voice
trembled with pity and anger. I guessed what Satan would say, and he
said it.
“There is that misused word again--that shabby slander. Brutes do not
act like that, but only men.”
“Well, it was inhuman, anyway.”
“No, it wasn’t, Seppi; it was human--quite distinctly human. It is not
pleasant to hear you libel the higher animals by attributing to them
dispositions which they are free from, and which are found nowhere but
in the human heart. None of the higher animals is tainted with the
disease called the Moral Sense. Purify your language, Seppi; drop those
lying phrases out of it.”
He spoke pretty sternly--for him--and I was sorry I hadn’t warned
Seppi to be more particular about the word he used. I knew how he was
feeling. He would not want to offend Satan; he would rather offend all
his kin. There was an uncomfortable silence, but relief soon came,
for that poor dog came along now, with his eye hanging down, and went
straight to Satan, and began to moan and mutter brokenly, and Satan
began to answer in the same way, and it was plain that they were
talking together in the dog language. We all sat down in the grass, in
the moonlight, for the clouds were breaking away now, and Satan took
the dog’s head in his lap and put the eye back in its place, and the
dog was comfortable, and he wagged his tail and licked Satan’s hand,
and looked thankful and said the same; I knew he was saying it, though
I did not understand the words. Then the two talked together a bit, and
Satan said:
“He says his master was drunk.”
“Yes, he was,” said we.
“And an hour later he fell over the precipice there beyond the Cliff
Pasture.”
“We know the place; it is three miles from here.”
“And the dog has been often to the village, begging people to go there,
but he was only driven away and not listened to.”
We remembered it, but hadn’t understood what he wanted.
“He only wanted help for the man who had misused him, and he thought
only of that, and has had no food nor sought any. He has watched by his
master two nights. What do you think of your race? Is heaven reserved
for it, and this dog ruled out, as your teachers tell you? Can your
race add anything to this dog’s stock of morals and magnanimities?” He
spoke to the creature, who jumped up, eager and happy, and apparently
ready for orders and impatient to execute them. “Get some men; go with
the dog--he will show you that carrion; and take a priest along to
arrange about insurance, for death is near.”
With the last word he vanished, to our sorrow and disappointment. We
got the men and Father Adolf, and we saw the man die. Nobody cared but
the dog; he mourned and grieved, and licked the dead face, and could
not be comforted. We buried him where he was, and without a coffin,
for he had no money, and no friend but the dog. If we had been an hour
earlier the priest would have been in time to send that poor creature
to heaven, but now he was gone down into the awful fires, to burn
forever. It seemed such a pity that in a world where so many people
have difficulty to put in their time, one little hour could not have
been spared for this poor creature who needed it so much, and to whom
it would have made the difference between eternal joy and eternal
pain. It gave an appalling idea of the value of an hour, and I thought
I could never waste one again without remorse and terror. Seppi was
depressed and grieved, and said it must be so much better to be a dog
and not run such awful risks. We took this one home with us and kept
him for our own. Seppi had a very good thought as we were walking
along, and it cheered us up and made us feel much better. He said the
dog had forgiven the man that had wronged him so, and maybe God would
accept that absolution.
There was a very dull week, now, for Satan did not come, nothing much
was going on, and we boys could not venture to go and see Marget,
because the nights were moonlit and our parents might find us out if
we tried. But we came across Ursula a couple of times taking a walk in
the meadows beyond the river to air the cat, and we learned from her
that things were going well. She had natty new clothes on and bore a
prosperous look. The four groschen a day were arriving without a break,
but were not being spent for food and wine and such things--the cat
attended to all that.
Marget was enduring her forsakenness and isolation fairly well, all
things considered, and was cheerful, by help of Wilhelm Meidling. She
spent an hour or two every night in the jail with her uncle, and had
fattened him up with the cat’s contributions. But she was curious to
know more about Philip Traum, and hoped I would bring him again. Ursula
was curious about him herself, and asked a good many questions about
his uncle. It made the boys laugh, for I had told them the nonsense
Satan had been stuffing her with. She got no satisfaction out of us,
our tongues being tied.
  [Illustration: MARGET WAS CHEERFUL BY HELP OF WILHELM MEIDLING]
Ursula gave us a small item of information: money being plenty now,
she had taken on a servant to help about the house and run errands.
She tried to tell it in a commonplace, matter-of-course way, but she
was so set up by it and so vain of it that her pride in it leaked out
pretty plainly. It was beautiful to see her veiled delight in this
grandeur, poor old thing, but when we heard the name of the servant we
wondered if she had been altogether wise; for although we were young,
and often thoughtless, we had fairly good perception on some matters.
This boy was Gottfried Narr, a dull, good creature, with no harm in him
and nothing against him personally; still, he was under a cloud, and
properly so, for it had not been six months since a social blight had
mildewed the family--his grandmother had been burned as a witch. When
that kind of a malady is in the blood it does not always come out with
just one burning. Just now was not a good time for Ursula and Marget to
be having dealings with a member of such a family, for the witch-terror
had risen higher during the past year than it had ever reached in the
memory of the oldest villagers. The mere mention of a witch was almost
enough to frighten us out of our wits. This was natural enough, because
of late years there were more kinds of witches than there used to be;
in old times it had been only old women, but of late years they were
of all ages--even children of eight and nine; it was getting so that
anybody might turn out to be a familiar of the Devil--age and sex
hadn’t anything to do with it. In our little region we had tried to
extirpate the witches, but the more of them we burned the more of the
breed rose up in their places.
Once, in a school for girls only ten miles away, the teachers found
that the back of one of the girls was all red and inflamed, and they
were greatly frightened, believing it to be the Devil’s marks. The girl
was scared, and begged them not to denounce her, and said it was only
fleas; but of course it would not do to let the matter rest there.
All the girls were examined, and eleven out of the fifty were badly
marked, the rest less so. A commission was appointed, but the eleven
only cried for their mothers and would not confess. Then they were shut
up, each by herself, in the dark, and put on black bread and water
for ten days and nights; and by that time they were haggard and wild,
and their eyes were dry and they did not cry any more, but only sat
and mumbled, and would not take the food. Then one of them confessed,
and said they had often ridden through the air on broomsticks to the
witches’ Sabbath, and in a bleak place high up in the mountains had
danced and drunk and caroused with several hundred other witches and
the Evil One, and all had conducted themselves in a scandalous way and
had reviled the priests and blasphemed God. That is what she said--not
in narrative form, for she was not able to remember any of the details
without having them called to her mind one after the other; but the
commission did that, for they knew just what questions to ask, they
being all written down for the use of witch-commissioners two centuries
before. They asked, “Did you do so and so?” and she always said yes,
and looked weary and tired, and took no interest in it. And so when
the other ten heard that this one confessed, they confessed, too, and
answered yes to the questions. Then they were burned at the stake all
together, which was just and right; and everybody went from all the
countryside to see it. I went, too; but when I saw that one of them was
a bonny, sweet girl I used to play with, and looked so pitiful there
chained to the stake, and her mother crying over her and devouring her
with kisses and clinging around her neck, and saying, “Oh, my God! oh,
my God!” it was too dreadful, and I went away.
It was bitter cold weather when Gottfried’s grandmother was burned.
It was charged that she had cured bad headaches by kneading the
person’s head and neck with her fingers--as she said--but really by the
Devil’s help, as everybody knew. They were going to examine her, but
she stopped them, and confessed straight off that her power was from
the Devil. So they appointed to burn her next morning, early, in our
market-square. The officer who was to prepare the fire was there first,
and prepared it. She was there next--brought by the constables, who
left her and went to fetch another witch. Her family did not come with
her. They might be reviled, maybe stoned, if the people were excited.
I came, and gave her an apple. She was squatting at the fire, warming
herself and waiting; and her old lips and hands were blue with the
cold. A stranger came next. He was a traveler, passing through; and he
spoke to her gently, and, seeing nobody but me there to hear, said he
was sorry for her. And he asked if what she confessed was true, and she
said no. He looked surprised and still more sorry then, and asked her:
“Then why did you confess?”
“I am old and very poor,” she said, “and I work for my living. There
was no way but to confess. If I hadn’t they might have set me free.
That would ruin me, for no one would forget that I had been suspected
of being a witch, and so I would get no more work, and wherever I went
they would set the dogs on me. In a little while I would starve. The
fire is best; it is soon over. You have been good to me, you two, and I
thank you.”
She snuggled closer to the fire, and put out her hands to warm them,
the snow-flakes descending soft and still on her old gray head and
making it white and whiter. The crowd was gathering now, and an egg
came flying and struck her in the eye, and broke and ran down her face.
There was a laugh at that.
I told Satan all about the eleven girls and the old woman, once, but
it did not affect him. He only said it was the human race, and what
the human race did was of no consequence. And he said he had seen it
made; and it was not made of clay; it was made of mud--part of it
was, anyway. I knew what he meant by that--the Moral Sense. He saw
the thought in my head, and it tickled him and made him laugh. Then he
called a bullock out of a pasture and petted it and talked with it, and
said:
“There--he wouldn’t drive children mad with hunger and fright and
loneliness, and then burn them for confessing to things invented for
them which had never happened. And neither would he break the hearts of
innocent, poor old women and make them afraid to trust themselves among
their own race; and he would not insult them in their death-agony. For
he is not besmirched with the Moral Sense, but is as the angels are,
and knows no wrong, and never does it.”
Lovely as he was, Satan could be cruelly offensive when he chose; and
he always chose when the human race was brought to his attention. He
always turned up his nose at it, and never had a kind word for it.
Well, as I was saying, we boys doubted if it was a good time for
Ursula to be hiring a member of the Narr family. We were right. When
the people found it out they were naturally indignant. And, moreover,
since Marget and Ursula hadn’t enough to eat themselves, where was
the money coming from to feed another mouth? That is what they wanted
to know; and in order to find out they stopped avoiding Gottfried and
began to seek his society and have sociable conversations with him. He
was pleased--not thinking any harm and not seeing the trap--and so he
talked innocently along, and was no discreeter than a cow.
“Money!” he said; “they’ve got plenty of it. They pay me two groschen a
week, besides my keep. And they live on the fat of the land, I can tell
you; the prince himself can’t beat their table.”
This astonishing statement was conveyed by the astrologer to Father
Adolf on a Sunday morning when he was returning from mass. He was
deeply moved, and said:
“This must be looked into.”
He said there must be witchcraft at the bottom of it, and told the
villagers to resume relations with Marget and Ursula in a private and
unostentatious way, and keep both eyes open. They were told to keep
their own counsel, and not rouse the suspicions of the household. The
villagers were at first a bit reluctant to enter such a dreadful place,
but the priest said they would be under his protection while there, and
no harm could come to them, particularly if they carried a trifle of
holy water along and kept their beads and crosses handy. This satisfied
them and made them willing to go; envy and malice made the baser sort
even eager to go.
And so poor Marget began to have company again, and was as pleased as
a cat. She was like ’most anybody else--just human, and happy in her
prosperities and not averse from showing them off a little; and she was
humanly grateful to have the warm shoulder turned to her and be smiled
upon by her friends and the village again; for of all the hard things
to bear, to be cut by your neighbors and left in contemptuous solitude
is maybe the hardest.
The bars were down, and we could all go there now, and we did--our
parents and all--day after day. The cat began to strain herself.
She provided the top of everything for those companies, and in
abundance--among them many a dish and many a wine which they had
not tasted before and which they had not even heard of except at
second-hand from the prince’s servants. And the tableware was much
above ordinary, too.
Marget was troubled at times, and pursued Ursula with questions to
an uncomfortable degree; but Ursula stood her ground and stuck to it
that it was Providence, and said no word about the cat. Marget knew
that nothing was impossible to Providence, but she could not help
having doubts that this effort was from there, though she was afraid
to say so, lest disaster come of it. Witchcraft occurred to her, but
she put the thought aside, for this was before Gottfried joined the
household, and she knew Ursula was pious and a bitter hater of witches.
By the time Gottfried arrived Providence was established, unshakably
intrenched, and getting all the gratitude. The cat made no murmur, but
went on composedly improving in style and prodigality by experience.
In any community, big or little, there is always a fair proportion
of people who are not malicious or unkind by nature, and who never
do unkind things except when they are overmastered by fear, or when
their self-interest is greatly in danger, or some such matter as that.
Eseldorf had its proportion of such people, and ordinarily their good
and gentle influence was felt, but these were not ordinary times--on
account of the witch-dread--and so we did not seem to have any gentle
and compassionate hearts left, to speak of. Every person was frightened
at the unaccountable state of things at Marget’s house, not doubting
that witchcraft was at the bottom of it, and fright frenzied their
reason. Naturally there were some who pitied Marget and Ursula for the
danger that was gathering about them, but naturally they did not say
so; it would not have been safe. So the others had it all their own
way, and there was none to advise the ignorant girl and the foolish
woman and warn them to modify their doings. We boys wanted to warn
them, but we backed down when it came to the pinch, being afraid. We
found that we were not manly enough nor brave enough to do a generous
action when there was a chance that it could get us into trouble.
Neither of us confessed this poor spirit to the others, but did as
other people would have done--dropped the subject and talked about
something else. And I knew we all felt mean, eating and drinking
Marget’s fine things along with those companies of spies, and petting
her and complimenting her with the rest, and seeing with self-reproach
how foolishly happy she was, and never saying a word to put her on her
guard. And, indeed, she was happy, and as proud as a princess, and so
grateful to have friends again. And all the time these people were
watching with all their eyes and reporting all they saw to Father Adolf.
But he couldn’t make head or tail of the situation. There must be an
enchanter somewhere on the premises, but who was it? Marget was not
seen to do any jugglery, nor was Ursula, not yet Gottfried; and still
the wines and dainties never ran short, and a guest could not call
for a thing and not get it. To produce these effects was usual enough
with witches and enchanters--that part of it was not new; but to do
it without any incantations, or even any rumblings or earthquakes or
lightnings or apparitions--that was new, novel, wholly irregular.
There was nothing in the books like this. Enchanted things were always
unreal. Gold turned to dirt in an unenchanted atmosphere, food withered
away and vanished. But this test failed in the present case. The spies
brought samples: Father Adolf prayed over them, exorcised them, but
it did no good; they remained sound and real, they yielded to natural
decay only, and took the usual time to do it.
Father Adolf was not merely puzzled, he was also exasperated; for
these evidences very nearly convinced him--privately--that there was
no witchcraft in the matter. It did not wholly convince him, for this
could be a new kind of witchcraft. There was a way to find out as to
this: if this prodigal abundance of provender was not brought in from
the outside, but produced on the premises, there was witchcraft, sure.
CHAPTER VII
Marget announced a party, and invited forty people; the date for it
was seven days away. This was a fine opportunity. Marget’s house
stood by itself, and it could be easily watched. All the week it was
watched night and day. Marget’s household went out and in as usual,
but they carried nothing in their hands, and neither they nor others
brought anything to the house. This was ascertained. Evidently rations
for forty people were not being fetched. If they were furnished any
sustenance it would have to be made on the premises. It was true that
Marget went out with a basket every evening, but the spies ascertained
that she always brought it back empty.
The guests arrived at noon and filled the place. Father Adolf followed;
also, after a little, the astrologer, without invitation. The spies had
informed him that neither at the back nor the front had any parcels
been brought in. He entered, and found the eating and drinking going
on finely, and everything progressing in a lively and festive way. He
glanced around and perceived that many of the cooked delicacies and all
of the native and foreign fruits were of a perishable character, and
he also recognized that these were fresh and perfect. No apparitions,
no incantations, no thunder. That settled it. This was witchcraft. And
not only that, but of a new kind--a kind never dreamed of before. It
was a prodigious power, an illustrious power; he resolved to discover
its secret. The announcement of it would resound throughout the
world, penetrate to the remotest lands, paralyze all the nations with
amazement--and carry his name with it, and make him renowned forever.
It was a wonderful piece of luck, a splendid piece of luck; the glory
of it made him dizzy.
All the house made room for him; Marget politely seated him; Ursula
ordered Gottfried to bring a special table for him. Then she decked it
and furnished it, and asked for his orders.
“Bring me what you will,” he said.
The two servants brought supplies from the pantry, together with white
wine and red--a bottle of each. The astrologer, who very likely had
never seen such delicacies before, poured out a beaker of red wine,
drank it off, poured another, then began to eat with a grand appetite.
I was not expecting Satan, for it was more than a week since I had seen
or heard of him, but now he came in--I knew it by the feel, though
people were in the way and I could not see him. I heard him apologizing
for intruding; and he was going away, but Marget urged him to stay,
and he thanked her and stayed. She brought him along, introducing him
to the girls, and to Meidling, and to some of the elders; and there
was quite a rustle of whispers: “It’s the young stranger we hear so
much about and can’t get sight of, he is away so much.” “Dear, dear,
but he is beautiful--what is his name?” “Philip Traum.” “Ah, it fits
him!” (You see, “Traum” is German for “Dream.”) “What does he do?”
“Studying for the ministry, they say.” “His face is his fortune--he’ll
be a cardinal some day.” “Where is his home?” “Away down somewhere in
the tropics, they say--has a rich uncle down there.” And so on. He
made his way at once; everybody was anxious to know him and talk with
him. Everybody noticed how cool and fresh it was, all of a sudden, and
wondered at it, for they could see that the sun was beating down the
same as before, outside, and the sky was clear of clouds, but no one
guessed the reason, of course.
The astrologer had drunk his second beaker; he poured out a third.
He set the bottle down, and by accident overturned it. He seized it
before much was spilled, and held it up to the light, saying, “What a
pity--it is royal wine.” Then his face lighted with joy or triumph, or
something, and he said, “Quick! Bring a bowl.”
It was brought--a four-quart one. He took up that two-pint bottle and
began to pour; went on pouring, the red liquor gurgling and gushing
into the white bowl and rising higher and higher up its sides,
everybody staring and holding their breath--and presently the bowl was
full to the brim.
“Look at the bottle,” he said, holding it up; “it is full yet!” I
glanced at Satan, and in that moment he vanished. Then Father Adolf
rose up, flushed and excited, crossed himself, and began to thunder in
his great voice, “This house is bewitched and accursed!” People began
to cry and shriek and crowd toward the door. “I summon this detected
household to--”
His words were cut off short. His face became red, then purple, but
he could not utter another sound. Then I saw Satan, a transparent
film, melt into the astrologer’s body; then the astrologer put up his
hand, and apparently in his own voice said, “Wait--remain where you
are.” All stopped where they stood. “Bring a funnel!” Ursula brought
it, trembling and scared, and he stuck it in the bottle and took up
the great bowl and began to pour the wine back, the people gazing and
dazed with astonishment, for they knew the bottle was already full
before he began. He emptied the whole of the bowl into the bottle, then
smiled out over the room, chuckled, and said, indifferently: “It is
nothing--anybody can do it! With my powers I can even do much more.”
  [Illustration: THE ASTROLOGER EMPTIED THE WHOLE OF THE BOWL
                 INTO THE BOTTLE]
A frightened cry burst out everywhere, “Oh, my God, he is possessed!”
and there was a tumultuous rush for the door which swiftly emptied
the house of all who did not belong in it except us boys and Meidling.
We boys knew the secret, and would have told it if we could, but we
couldn’t. We were very thankful to Satan for furnishing that good help
at the needful time.
Marget was pale, and crying; Meidling looked kind of petrified; Ursula
the same; but Gottfried was the worst--he couldn’t stand, he was so
weak and scared. For he was of a witch family, you know, and it would
be bad for him to be suspected. Agnes came loafing in, looking pious
and unaware, and wanted to rub up against Ursula and be petted, but
Ursula was afraid of her and shrank away from her, but pretending she
was not meaning any incivility, for she knew very well it wouldn’t
answer to have strained relations with that kind of a cat. But we boys
took Agnes and petted her, for Satan would not have befriended her if
he had not had a good opinion of her, and that was indorsement enough
for us. He seemed to trust anything that hadn’t the Moral Sense.
Outside, the guests, panic-stricken, scattered in every direction and
fled in a pitiable state of terror; and such a tumult as they made with
their running and sobbing and shrieking and shouting that soon all the
village came flocking from their houses to see what had happened, and
they thronged the street and shouldered and jostled one another in
excitement and fright; and then Father Adolf appeared, and they fell
apart in two walls like the cloven Red Sea, and presently down this
lane the astrologer came striding and mumbling, and where he passed
the lanes surged back in packed masses, and fell silent with awe, and
their eyes stared and their breasts heaved, and several women fainted;
and when he was gone by the crowd swarmed together and followed him
at a distance, talking excitedly and asking questions and finding out
the facts. Finding out the facts and passing them on to others, with
improvements--improvements which soon enlarged the bowl of wine to a
barrel, and made the one bottle hold it all and yet remain empty to the
last.
When the astrologer reached the market-square he went straight to a
juggler, fantastically dressed, who was keeping three brass balls in
the air, and took them from him and faced around upon the approaching
crowd and said: “This poor clown is ignorant of his art. Come forward
and see an expert perform.”
So saying, he tossed the balls up one after another and set them
whirling in a slender bright oval in the air, and added another,
then another and another, and soon--no one seeing whence he got
them--adding, adding, adding, the oval lengthening all the time, his
hands moving so swiftly that they were just a web or a blur and not
distinguishable as hands; and such as counted said there were now a
hundred balls in the air. The spinning great oval reached up twenty
feet in the air and was a shining and glinting and wonderful sight.
Then he folded his arms and told the balls to go on spinning without
his help--and they did it. After a couple of minutes he said, “There,
that will do,” and the oval broke and came crashing down, and the balls
scattered abroad and rolled every whither. And wherever one of them
came the people fell back in dread, and no one would touch it. It made
him laugh, and he scoffed at the people and called them cowards and old
women. Then he turned and saw the tight-rope, and said foolish people
were daily wasting their money to see a clumsy and ignorant varlet
degrade that beautiful art; now they should see the work of a master.
With that he made a spring into the air and lit firm on his feet on
the rope. Then he hopped the whole length of it back and forth on one
foot, with his hands clasped over his eyes; and next he began to throw
somersaults, both backward and forward, and threw twenty-seven.
The people murmured, for the astrologer was old, and always before had
been halting of movement and at times even lame, but he was nimble
enough now and went on with his antics in the liveliest manner. Finally
he sprang lightly down and walked away, and passed up the road and
around the corner and disappeared. Then that great, pale, silent, solid
crowd drew a deep breath and looked into one another’s faces as if
they said: “Was it real? Did you see it, or was it only I--and I was
dreaming?” Then they broke into a low murmur of talking, and fell apart
in couples, and moved toward their homes, still talking in that awed
way, with faces close together and laying a hand on an arm and making
other such gestures as people make when they have been deeply impressed
by something.
We boys followed behind our fathers, and listened, catching all we
could of what they said; and when they sat down in our house and
continued their talk they still had us for company. They were in a sad
mood, for it was certain, they said, that disaster for the village must
follow this awful visitation of witches and devils. Then my father
remembered that Father Adolf had been struck dumb at the moment of his
denunciation.
“They have not ventured to lay their hands upon an anointed servant of
God before,” he said: “and how they could have dared it this time I
cannot make out, for he wore his crucifix. Isn’t it so?”
“Yes,” said the others, “we saw it.”
“It is serious, friends, it is very serious. Always before, we had a
protection. It has failed.”
The others shook, as with a sort of chill, and muttered those words
over--“It has failed.” “God has forsaken us.”
“It is true,” said Seppi Wohlmeyer’s father; “there is nowhere to look
for help.”
“The people will realize this,” said Nikolaus’s father, the judge,
“and despair will take away their courage and their energies. We have
indeed fallen upon evil times.”
He sighed, and Wohlmeyer said, in a troubled voice: “The report of it
all will go about the country, and our village will be shunned as being
under the displeasure of God. The Golden Stag will know hard times.”
“True, neighbor,” said my father; “all of us will suffer--all in
repute, many in estate. And, good God!--”
“What is it?”
“That can come--to finish us!”
“Name it--um Gottes Willen!”
“The Interdict!”
It smote like a thunderclap, and they were like to swoon with the
terror of it. Then the dread of this calamity roused their energies,
and they stopped brooding and began to consider ways to avert it. They
discussed this, that, and the other way, and talked till the afternoon
was far spent, then confessed that at present they could arrive at no
decision. So they parted sorrowfully, with oppressed hearts which were
filled with bodings.
While they were saying their parting words I slipped out and set my
course for Marget’s house to see what was happening there. I met many
people, but none of them greeted me. It ought to have been surprising,
but it was not, for they were so distraught with fear and dread that
they were not in their right minds, I think; they were white and
haggard, and walked like persons in a dream, their eyes open but seeing
nothing, their lips moving but uttering nothing, and worriedly clasping
and unclasping their hands without knowing it.
At Marget’s it was like a funeral. She and Wilhelm sat together on the
sofa, but said nothing, and not even holding hands. Both were steeped
in gloom, and Marget’s eyes were red from the crying she had been
doing. She said:
