"I don't know," said he. "If I did know I shouldn't tell you."
Madame Beattie seemed not to suspect the possibility of rebuff.
"Esther hasn't changed a particle," said she.
Jeff scowled, not at her, but absently at the side of the house, and
made no answer.
"Aren't you coming down there?" asked Madame Beattie peremptorily, with
the air of drumming him up to some task that would have to be reckoned
with in the end. "Come, Jeff, why don't you answer? Aren't you coming
down?"
Jeffrey had ceased scowling. He had smoothed his brows out with his
hand, indeed, as if their tenseness hurt him.
"Look here," said he, "you ask a lot of questions."
She laughed again, a different sort of old laugh, a fat and throaty one.
"Did I ever tell you," said she, "what the Russian grand duke said when
I asked him why he didn't marry?"
"No," said Jeff, quite peaceably now. She was safer in the company of
remembered royalties.
Madame Beattie sought among the jingling decorations of her person for
a cigarette, found it and offered him another.
"Quite good," she told him. "An Italian count keeps me supplied. I don't
know where the creature gets them."
Then, after they had lighted up, she returned to her grand duke, and
Jeff found the story sufficiently funny and laughed at it, and she
pulled another out of her well-stored memory, and he laughed at that.
Madame Beattie told her stories excellently. She knew how little weight
they carry smothered in feminine graces and coy obliquities from the
point. Graces had long ceased to interest her as among the assets of a
life where man and woman have to work to feed themselves. Now she sat
down with her brother man and emulated him in ready give and take.
Jeffrey forsook the rail which had subtly marked his distance from her;
he took a chair, and put his feet up on the rail. Madame Beattie's
neatly shod and very small feet went up on a chair, and she tipped the
one she was sitting in at a dangerous angle while she exhaled
luxuriously, and so Lydia, coming round the corner in a simple curiosity
to know who was there, found them, laughing uproariously and dim with
smoke. Lydia had her opinions about smoking. She had seen women indulge
in it at some of the functions where she and Anne danced, but she had
never found a woman of this stamp doing it with precisely this air.
Indeed, Lydia had never seen a woman of Madame Beattie's stamp in her
whole life. She stopped short, and the two could not at once get hold of
themselves in their peal of accordant mirth. But Lydia had time to see
one thing for a certainty. Jeff's face had cleared of its brooding and
its intermittent scowl. He was enjoying himself. This, she thought, in a
sudden rage of scorn, was the kind of thing he enjoyed: not Farvie, not
Anne's gentle ministrations, but the hooting of a horrible old woman.
Madame Beattie saw her and straightened some of the laughing wrinkles
round her eyes.
"Well, well!" said she. "Who's this?"
Then Jeffrey, becoming suddenly grave, as if, Lydia thought, he ought to
be ashamed of laughing in such company, sprang to his feet, and threw
away his cigarette.
"Madame Beattie," said he, "this is Miss Lydia French."
Madame Beattie did not rise, as who, indeed, so plumed and
black-velveted should for a slip of a creature trembling with futile
rage over a brother proved wanting in ideals? She extended one hand,
while the other removed the cigarette from her lips and held it at a
becoming distance.
"And who's Miss Lydia French?" said she. Then, as Lydia, pink with
embarrassment and disapproval, made no sign, she added peremptorily,
"Come here, my dear."
Lydia came. It was true that Madame Beattie had attained to privilege
through courts and high estate. When she herself had ruled by the
prerogative of a perfect throat and a mind attuned to it, she had
imbibed a sense of power which was still dividend-paying even now,
though the throat was dead to melody. When she really asked you to do
anything, you did it, that was all. She seldom asked now, because her
attitude was all careless tolerance, keen to the main chance but lax in
exacting smaller tribute, as one having had such greater toll. But
Lydia's wilful hesitation awakened her to some slight curiosity, and she
bade her the more commandingly. Lydia was standing before her, red,
unwillingly civil, and Madame Beattie reached forward and took one of
her little plump work-roughened hands, held it for a moment, as if in
guarantee of kindliness, and then dropped it.
"Now," said she, "who are you?"
Jeffrey, seeing Lydia so put about, answered for her again, but this
time in terms of a warmth which astonished him as it did Lydia.
"She is my sister Lydia."
Madame Beattie looked at him in a frank perplexity.
"Now," said she, "what do you mean by that? No, no, my dear, don't go."
Lydia had turned by the slightest movement. "You haven't any sisters,
Jeff. Oh, I remember. It was that romantic marriage." Lydia turned back
now and looked straight at her, as if to imply if there were any
qualifying of the marriage she had a word to say. "Wasn't there another
child?" Madame Beattie continued, still to Jeff.
"Anne is in the house," said he.
He had placed a chair for Lydia, with a kindly solicitude, seeing how
uncomfortable she was; but Lydia took no notice. Now she straightened
slightly, and put her pretty head up. She looked again as she did when
the music was about to begin, and her little feet, though they kept
their decorous calm, were really beating time.
"Well, you're a pretty girl," said Madame Beattie, dropping her lorgnon.
She had lifted it for a stare and taken in the whole rebellious figure.
"Esther didn't tell me you were pretty. You know Esther, don't you?"
"No," said Lydia, in a wilful stubbornness; "I don't know her."
"You've seen her, haven't you?"
"Yes, I've seen her."
"You don't like her then?" said Madame astutely. "What's the matter with
her?"
Something gave way in Lydia. The pressure of feeling was too great and
candour seethed over the top.
"She's a horrid woman."
Or was it because some inner watchman on the tower told her Jeff himself
had better hear again what one person thought of Esther? Madame Beattie
threw back her plumed head and laughed, the same laugh she had used to
annotate the stories. Lydia immediately hated herself for having
challenged it. Jeffrey, she knew, was faintly smiling, though she could
not guess his inner commentary:
"What a little devil!"
Madame Beattie now turned to him.
"Same old story, isn't it?" she stated. "Every woman of woman born is
bound to hate her."
"Yes," said Jeff.
Lydia walked away, expecting, as she went, to be called back and
resolving that no inherent power in the voice of aged hatefulness should
force her. But Madame Beattie, having placed her, had forgotten all
about her. She rose, and brushed the ashes from her velvet curves.
"Come," she was saying to Jeffrey, "walk along with me."
He obediently picked up his hat.
"I sha'n't go home with you," said he, "if that's what you mean."
She took his arm and convoyed him down the steps, leaning wearily. She
had long ago ceased to exercise happy control over useful muscles. They
even creaked in her ears and did strange things when she made requests
of them.
"You understand," said Jeffrey, when they were pursuing a slow way along
the street, he with a chafed sense of ridiculous captivity. "I sha'n't
go into the house. I won't even go to the door."
"Stuff!" said the lady. "You needn't tell me you don't want to see
Esther."
Jeff didn't tell her that. He didn't tell her anything. He stolidly
guided her along.
"There isn't a man born that wouldn't want to see Esther if he'd seen
her once," said Madame Beattie.
But this he neither combated nor confirmed, and at the corner nearest
Esther's house he stopped, lifted the hand from his arm and placed it in
a stiff rigour at her waist. He then took off his hat, prepared to stand
while she went on. And Madame Beattie laughed.
"You're a brute," said she pleasantly, "a dear, sweet brute. Well,
you'll come to it. I shall tell Esther you love her so much you hate
her, and she'll send out spies after you. Good-bye. If you don't come,
I'll come again."
Jeffrey made no answer. He watched her retreating figure until it turned
in at the gate, and then he wheeled abruptly and went back. An instinct
of flight was on him. Here in the open street he longed for walls, only
perhaps because he knew how well everybody wished him and their kindness
he could not meet.
Madame Beattie found Esther at the door, waiting. She was an excited
Esther, bright-eyed, short of breath.
"Where have you been?" she demanded.
Madame Beattie took off her hat and stabbed the pin through it. Her
toupée, deranged by the act, perceptibly slid, but though she knew it by
the feel, that eccentricity did not, in the company of a mere niece,
trouble her at all. She sank into a chair and laid her hat on the
neighbouring stand.
"Where have you been?" repeated Esther, a pulse of something like anger
beating through the words.
Madame Beattie answered idly: "Up to see Jeff."
"I knew it!" Esther breathed.
"Of course," said Madame Beattie carelessly. "Jeff and I were quite
friends in old times. I was glad I went. It cheered him up."
"Did he--" Esther paused.
"Ask for you?" supplied Madame Beattie pleasantly. "Not a word."
Here Esther's curiosity did whip her on. She had to ask:
"How does he look?"
"Oh, youngish," said Madame. "Rather flabby. Obstinate. Ugly, too."
"Ugly? Plain, do you mean?"
"No. American for ugly--obstinate, sore-headed. He's hardened. He was
rather a silly boy, I remember. Had enthusiasms. Much in love. He isn't
now. He's no use for women."
Esther looked at her in an arrested thoughtfulness. Madame Beattie could
have laughed. She had delivered the challenge Jeff had not sent, and
Esther was accepting it, wherever it might lead, to whatever duelling
ground. Esther couldn't help that. A challenge was a challenge. She had
to answer. It was a necessity of type. Madame Beattie saw the least
little flickering thought run into her eyes, and knew she was
involuntarily charting the means of summons, setting up the loom, as it
were, to weave the magic web. She got up, took her hat, gave her toupée
a little smack with the hand, and unhinged it worse than ever.
"You'll have to give him up," she said.
"Give him up!" flamed Esther. "Do you think I want--"
There she paused and Madame Beattie supplied temperately:
"No matter what you want. You couldn't have him."
Then she went toiling upstairs, her chained ornaments clinking, and only
when she had shut the door upon herself did she relax and smile over the
simplicity of even a feminine creature so versed in obliquity as
Esther. For Esther might want to escape the man who had brought disgrace
upon her, but her flying feet would do her no good, so long as the
mainspring of her life set her heart beating irrationally for conquest.
Esther had to conquer even when the event would bring disaster: like a
chieftain who would enlarge his boundaries at the risk of taking in
savages bound to sow the dragon's teeth.
IX
That evening the Blake house had the sound and look of social life,
voices in conversational interchange and lights where Mary Nellen
excitedly arrayed them. Alston Choate had come to call, and following
him appeared an elderly lady whom Jeffrey greeted with more outward
warmth than he had even shown his father. Alston Choate had walked in
with a simple directness as though he were there daily, and Anne
impulsively went forward to him. She felt she knew him very well. They
were quite friends. Alston, smiling at her and taking her hand on the
way to the colonel and Jeff, seemed to recognise that, and greeted her
less formally than the others. The colonel was moved at seeing him. The
Choates were among the best of local lineage, men and women
distinguished by clear rigidities of conduct. Their friendship was a
promissory note, bound to be honoured to the full. Lydia was for some
reason abashed, and Jeff, both she and Anne thought, not adequately
welcoming. But how could he be, Anne considered. He was in a position of
unique loneliness. He lacked fellowship. Nobody but Alston, in their
stratum at least, had come in person. No wonder he looked warily, lest
he assume too much.
Before they settled down, the elderly lady, with a thud of feet softly
shod, walked through the hall and stood at the library door regarding
them benignantly. And then Jeff, with an outspoken sound of pleasure and
surprise, got up and drew her in, and Choate smiled upon her as if she
were delightfully unlike anybody else. The colonel, with a quick, moved
look, just said her name:
"Amabel!"
She gave warm, quick grasps from a firm hand, gave them all round, not
seeming to know she hadn't met Anne and Lydia, and at once took off her
bonnet. It had strings and altogether belonged to an epoch at least
twenty years away. The bonnet she "laid aside" on a table with a certain
absent care, as ladies were accustomed to treat bonnets before they got
into the way of jabbing them with pins. Then she sat down, earnestly
solicitous and attentive as at a consultation. Anne thought she was the
most beautiful person she had ever seen. It was a pity Miss Amabel
Bracebridge could not have known that impetuous verdict. It would have
brought her a surprised, spontaneous laugh: nothing could have convinced
her it was not delicious foolery. She was tall and broad and heavy. When
she stood in the doorway, she seemed to fill it. Now that she sat in the
chair, she filled that, a soft, stout woman with great shoulders and a
benign face, a troubled face, as if she were used to soothing ills, yet
found for them no adequate recompense. Her dark grey dress was buttoned
in front, after the fashion of a time long past. It was so archaic in
cut, with a little ruffle at neck and sleeves, that it did more than
adequate service toward maturing her. Indeed, there was no youth about
Miss Amabel, except the youth of her eyes and smile. There were
childlike wistfulness and hope, but experience chiefly, of life, of the
unaccounted for, the unaccountable. She had, above all, an expression of
well-wishing. Now she sat and looked about her.
"Dear me!" she said, "how pleasant it is to see this house open again."
"But it's been open," Lydia impulsively reminded her.
"Yes," said Miss Amabel. "But not this way." She turned to Jeff and
regarded him anxiously. "Don't you smoke?" she asked.
He laughed again. He was exceedingly pleased, Anne saw, merely at seeing
her. Miss Amabel was exactly as he remembered her.
"Yes," said he. "Want us to?"
She put up her long eyebrows and smiled as if in some amusement at
herself.
"I've learned lately," she said, "that gentlemen are so devoted to it
they feel lost without it."
"Light up, Choate," said Jeffrey. "My sisters won't mind. Will you?" He
interrogated Anne. "They get along with me."
No, Anne didn't mind, and she rose and brought matches and little trays.
Lydia often wondered how Anne knew the exact pattern of man's
convenience. But though Choate accepted a cigar, he did not light it.
"Not now," he said, when Jeffrey offered him a light; he laid the cigar
down, tapping it once or twice with his fine hand, and Anne thought he
refrained in courtesy toward her and Lydia.
"This is very pleasant," said the colonel suddenly. "It's good to see
you, Amabel. Now I feel myself at home."
But what, after the first settling was over, had they to say? The same
thought was in all their minds. What was Jeffrey going to do? He knew
that, and moved unhappily. Whatever he was going to do, he wouldn't talk
about it. But Miss Amabel was approaching him with the clearest
simplicity.
"Jeff, my dear," she said, "I can't wait to hear about your ideal
republic."
And then, all his satisfaction gone and his scowl come back, Jeff shook
his head as if a persistent fly had lighted on him, and again he
disclaimed achievement.
"Amabel," said he, "I'm awfully sick of that, you know."
"But, dear boy, you revolutionised--" she was about to add, "the
prison," but stumbled lamely--"the place."
"The papers told us that," said Choate. It was apparent he was helping
somebody out, but whether Jeff or Miss Amabel even he couldn't have
said.
"It isn't revolutionised," said Jeff. He turned upon Choate brusquely.
"It's exactly the same."
"They say it's revolutionised," Miss Amabel offered anxiously.
"Who says so?" he countered, now turning on her.
"The papers," she told him. "You didn't write me about it. I asked you
all sorts of questions and you wouldn't say a word."
"But you wrote me," said Jeff affectionately, "every week. I got so used
to your letters I sha'n't be able to do without them; I shall have to
see you every day."
"Of course we're going to see each other," she said. "And there's such a
lot you can do."
She looked so earnestly entreating that Choate, who sat not far from
her, gave a murmured: "Ah, Miss Amabel!" In his mind the
half-despairing, wholly loving thought had been: "Good old girl! You're
spending yourself and all your money, but it's no use--no use."
She was going on with a perfect clarity of purpose.
"Oh, you know, Jeff can do more for us than anybody else."
"What do you want done for you?" he inquired.
His habit of direct attack gave Lydia a shiver. She was sure people
couldn't like it, and she was exceedingly anxious for him to be liked.
Miss Amabel turned to Farvie.
"You see," she said, "Addington is waking up. I didn't dwell very much
on it," she added, now to Jeff, "when I wrote you, because I thought
you'd like best to think of it as it was. But now--"
"Now I'm out," said Jeff brutally, "you find me equal to it."
"I think," said Miss Amabel, "you can do so much for us." Nothing
troubled her governed calm. It might almost be that, having looked from
high places into deep ones, no abyss could dizzy her. "Weedon Moore
feels as I do."
"Weedon Moore?" Jeffrey repeated, in a surprised and most uncordial
tone. He looked at Choate.
"Yes," said Choate, as if he confirmed not only the question but Jeff's
inner feeling, "he's here. He's practising law, and besides that he
edits the Argosy."
"Owns it, too, I think," said Farvie. "They told me so at the
news-stand."
"Well," said Choate pointedly, "it's said Miss Amabel owns it."
"Then," said Jeff, including her abruptly, "you've the whip-hand. You
can get Moore out of it. What's he in it for anyway? Did you have to
take him over with the business?"
Miss Amabel was plainly grieved.
"Now why should you want to turn him out of it?" she asked, really of
Choate who had started the attack. "Mr. Moore is a very able young man,
of the highest ideals."
Jeff laughed. It was a kindly laugh. Anne was again sure he loved Miss
Amabel.
"I can't see Moore changing much after twenty-five," he said to Choate,
who confirmed him briefly:
"Same old Weedie."
"Mr. Moore is not popular," said Miss Amabel, with dignity, turning now
to Farvie. "He never has been, here in Addington. He comes of plain
people."
"That's not it, Miss Amabel," said Choate gently. "He might have been
spawned out of the back meadows or he might have been--a Bracebridge."
He bowed to her with a charming conciliation and Miss Amabel sat a
little straighter. "If we don't accept him, it's because he's Weedon
Moore."
"We were in school with him, you know: in college, too," said Jeff, with
that gentleness men always accorded her, men of perception who saw in
her the motherhood destined to diffuse itself, often to no end: she was
so noble and at the same time so helpless in the crystal prison of her
hopes. "We knew Weedie like a book."
Miss Amabel took on an added dignity, proportioned to the discomfort of
her task. Here she was defending Weedon Moore whom her outer
sensibilities rejected the while his labelled virtues moved her soul.
Sometimes when she found herself with people like these to-night,
manifestly her own kind, she was tired of being good.
"I don't know any one," said she, "who feels the prevailing unrest more
keenly than Weedon Moore."
At that instant, Mary Nellen, her eyes brightening as these social
activities increased, appeared in the doorway, announcing doubtfully:
"Mr. Moore."
Jeffrey, as if actually startled, looked round at Choate who was
unaffectedly annoyed. Anne, rising to receive the problematic Moore,
thought they had an air of wondering how they could repel unwarranted
invasion. Miss Amabel, in a sort of protesting, delicate distress, was
loyally striving to make the invader's path plain.
"I told him I was coming," she said. "It seems he had thought of
dropping in." Then Anne went out on the heels of Mary Nellen, hearing
Miss Amabel conclude, as she left, with an apologetic note unfamiliar to
her soft voice, "He wants you to write something, Jeff, for the
Argosy."
Anne, even before seeing him, became conscious that Mary Nellen regarded
the newcomer as undesirable; and when she came on him standing, hat in
hand, she agreed that Weedon Moore was, in his outward integument,
exceedingly unpleasant: a short, swarthy, tubby man, always, she was to
note, dressed in smooth black, and invariably wearing or carrying, with
the gravity of a funeral mourner, what Addington knew as a "tall hat".
When the weather gave him countenance, he wore a black coat with a cape.
One flashing ring adorned his left hand, and he indulged a barbaric
taste in flowing ties. Seeing Anne, he spoke at once, and if she had not
been prepared for him she must have guessed him to be a man come on a
message of importance. There was conscious emphasis in his voice, and
there needed to be if it was to accomplish anything: a high voice,
strident, and, like the rest of him, somehow suggesting insect life. He
held out his hand and Anne most unwillingly took it.
"Miss French," said he, with no hesitation before her name, "how is
Jeff?"
The mere inquiry set Anne vainly to hoping that he need not come in. But
he gave no quarter.
"I said I'd run over to-night, paper or no paper. I'm frightfully busy,
you know, cruelly, abominably busy. But I just wanted to see Jeff."
"Won't you come in?" said Anne.
Even then he did not abandon his hat. He kept his hold on it, bearing it
before him in a way that made Anne think absurdly of shields and
bucklers. When, in the library, she turned to present him, as if he were
an unpleasant find she had got to vouch for somehow, the men were
already on their feet and Jeff was setting forward a chair. She could
not help thinking it was a clever stage business to release him from the
necessity of shaking hands. But Moore did not abet him in that
informality. His small hand was out, and he was saying in a sharp,
strained voice, exactly as if he were making a point of some kind, an
oratorical point:
"Jeff, my dear fellow! I'm tremendously glad to see you."
Anne thought Jeff might not shake hands with him at all. But she saw him
steal a shamefaced look at Miss Amabel and immediately, as if something
radical had to be done when it came to the friend of a beloved old girl
like her, strike his hand into Moore's, with an emphasis the more
pronounced for his haste to get it over. Moore seemed enraptured at the
handshake and breathless over the occasion. Having begun shaking hands
he kept on with enthusiasm: the colonel, Miss Amabel and Lydia had to
respond to an almost fervid greeting.
Only Choate proved immune. He had vouchsafed a cool: "How are you,
Weedie?" when Moore began, and that seemed all Moore was likely to
expect. Then they all sat down and there was, Lydia decided, as she
glanced from one to another, no more pleasure in it. There was talk.
Moore chatted so exuberantly, his little hands upon his fattish knees,
that he seemed to squeeze sociability out of himself in a rapture of
generous willingness to share all he had. He asked the colonel how he
liked Addington, and was not abashed at being reminded that the colonel
had known Addington for a good many years.
"Still it's changed," said Moore, regarding him almost archly.
"Addington isn't the place it was even a year ago."
"I hope we've learned something," said Miss Amabel earnestly and yet
prettily too.
"My theory of Addington," said Choate easily, "is that we all wish we
were back in the Addington of a hundred years ago."
"You'd want to be in the dominant class," said Moore. There was
something like the trammels of an unwilling respect over his manner to
Choate; yet still he managed to be rallying. "When the old merchants
were coming home with china and bales of silk and Paris shoes for madam.
And think of it," said he, raising his sparse eyebrows and looking like
a marionette moulded to express something and saying it with painful
clumsiness, almost grotesquerie, "the ships are bringing human products
now. They're bringing us citizens, bone and sinew of the republic, and
we cry back to china and bales of silk."
"I didn't answer you, Moore," said Choate, turning to him and speaking,
Lydia thought, with the slightest arrogance. "I should have wanted to
belong to the governing class--of course."
"Now!" said Miss Amabel. She spoke gently, and she was, they saw, pained
at the turn the talk had taken. "Alston, why should you say that?"
"Because I mean it," said Alston. His quietude seemed to carry a private
message to Moore, but he turned to her, as he spoke and smiled as if to
ask her not to interpret him harshly. "Of course I should have wanted to
be in the dominant class. So does everybody, really."
"No, my dear," said Miss Amabel.
"No," agreed Choate, "you don't. The others like you didn't. I won't
embarrass you by naming them. You want to sit submerged, you others, and
be choked by slime, if you must be, and have the holy city built up on
your shoulders. But the rest of us don't. Moore here doesn't, do you,
Weedie?"
Weedon gave a quick embarrassed laugh.
"You're so droll," said he.
"No," said Choate quietly, "I'm not being droll. Of course I want to
belong to the dominant class. So does the man that never dominated in
his life. He wants to overthrow the over-lords so he can rule himself.
He wants to crowd me so he can push into a place beside me."
Moore laughed with an overdone enjoyment.
"Excellent," he said, squeezing the words out of his knees. "You're such
a humourist."
If he wanted to be offensive, that was the keenest cut he could have
delivered.
"I have often thought," said the colonel, beginning in a hesitating,
deferent way that made his utterance rather notable, "that we saddle
what we call the lower orders with motives different from our own."
"Precisely," Choate clipped in. "We used to think, when they committed a
perfectly logical crime, like stealing a sheep or a loaf of bread, that
it was absolutely different from anything we could have done. Whereas in
their places we should have tried precisely the same thing. Just as
cleanliness is a matter of bathtubs and temperature. We shouldn't bathe
if we had to break the ice over a quart of water and then go out and run
a trolley car all day."
Lydia's face, its large eyes fixed upon him, said so plainly "I don't
believe it" that he laughed, with a sudden enjoyment of her, and, after
an instant of wider-eyed surprise, she laughed too.
"And here's Miss Amabel," Choate went on, in the voice it seemed he kept
for her, "going to the outer extreme and believing, because the
labouring man has been bled, that he's incapable of bleeding you. Don't
you think it, Miss Amabel. He's precisely like the rest of us. Like me.
Like Weedon here. He'll sit up on his platform and judge me like forty
thousand prophets out of Israel; but put him where I am and he'll cling
with his eyelids and stick there. Just as I shall."
Miss Amabel looked deeply troubled and also at a loss.
"I only think, Alston," she said, "that so much insight, so much of the
deepest knowledge comes of pain. And the poor have suffered pain so many
centuries. They've learned things we don't know. Look how they help one
another. Look at their self-sacrifice."
"Look at your own self-sacrifice," said Choate.
"Oh, but they know," said she. The flame of a great desire was in her
face. "I don't know what it is to be hungry. If I starved myself I
shouldn't know, because in somebody's pantry would be the bread-box I
could put my hand into. They know, Alston. It gives them insight. When
they remember the road they've travelled, they're not going to make the
mistakes we've made."
"Oh, yes, they are," said Choate. "Pardon me. There are going to be
robbers and pirates and Napoleons and get-rich-quicks born for quite a
while yet. And they're not going to be born in my class alone--nor
Weedon's."
Weedon squirmed at this, and even Jeff thought it rather a nasty cut.
But Jeff did not know yet how well Choate knew Weedon in the ways of
men. And Weedon accepted no rebuff. He turned to Jeff, distinctly
leaving Choate as one who would have his little pleasantries.
"Jeff," he said, "I want you to do something for the Argosy."
Jeff at once knew what.
"Queer," he said, "how you all think I've got copy out of jail."
Anne resented the word. It was not jail, she thought, a federal prison
where gentlemen, when they have done wrong or been, like Jeff, falsely
accused, may go with dignity.
"My dear," said Miss Amabel, in a manner at once all compassion and
inexorable demand, "you've got so much to tell us. You men in
that--place," she stumbled over the word and then accepted
it--"discussed the ideal republic. You made it, by discussing it."
"Yes," said Choate, in voice of curious circumspection as if he hardly
knew what form even of eulogy might hurt, "it was an astonishing piece
of business. You can't expect people not to notice a thing like that."
"I can't help it," said Jeff. "I don't want such a row made over it."
Whether the thing was too intimate, too near his heart still beating
sluggishly it might be, from prison air, could not be seen. But Miss
Amabel, exquisitely compassionate, was yet inexorable, because he had
something to give and must not withhold.
"The wonderful part of it is," she said, "that when you have built up
your ideal government, prison ceases to be prison. There won't be
punishment any more."
"Oh, don't you make that mistake," said Jeff, instantly, moved now too
vitally to keep out of it. "There are going to be punishments all along
the line. The big punishment of all, when you've broken a law, is that
you're outside. If it's a small break, you're not much over the sill. If
it's a big break, you're absolutely out. Outside, Amabel, outside!" He
never used the civil prefix before her name, and Anne wondered again
whether the intimacy of the letters accounted for this sweet
informality. "You're banished. What's worse than that?"
"Oh, but," said she, her plain, beautiful face beaming divinity on him
as one of the children of men, "I don't want them to be banished. If
anybody has sinned--has broken the law--I want him to be educated.
That's all."
"Look here," said Jeff, He bent forward to her and laid the finger of
one trade-stained hand in the other palm. "You're emasculating the whole
nation. Let us be educated, but let us take our good hard whacks."
"Hear! hear!" said Choate, speaking mildly but yet as a lawyer, who
spent his life in presenting liabilities for or against punishment.
"That's hot stuff."
"I believe in law," said Jeff rapidly. "Sometimes I think that's all I
believe in now."
Anne and Lydia looked at him in a breathless waiting upon his words. He
had begun to justify himself to their crescent belief in him, the
product of the years. His father also waited, but tremulously. Here was
the boy he had wanted back, but he had not so very much strength to
accord even a fulfilled delight. Jeff, forgetful of everybody but the
old sybil he was looking at, sure of her comprehension if not her
agreement, went on.
"I'd rather have bad laws than no laws. I believe in Sparta. I believe
in the Catholic Church, if only because it has fasts and penances. We've
got to toe the mark. If we don't, something's got to give it to us good
and hard, the harder the better, too. Are we children to be let off from
the consequences of what we've done? No, by God! We're men and we've got
to learn."
Suddenly his eyes left Miss Amabel's quickened face and he glanced about
him, aware of the startled tensity of gaze among the others. Moore,
with a little book on his knee, was writing rapidly.
"Notes?" Jeff asked him shortly. "No, you don't."
He got up and extended his hand for the book, and Moore helplessly,
after a look at Miss Amabel, as if to ask whether she meant to see him
bullied, delivered it. Jeff whirled back two leaves, tore them out,
crumpled them in his hand and tossed them into the fireplace.
"You can't do that, Moore," he said indifferently, and Choate murmured a
monosyllabic assent.
Moore never questioned the bullying he so prodigally got. He never had
at college even; he was as ready to fawn the next day. It seemed as if
the inner man were small, too small for sound resentment. Jeff sat down
again. He looked depressed, his countenance without inward light. But
Lydia and Anne had rediscovered him. Again he was their hero, reclothed
indeed in finer mail. Miss Amabel rose at once. She shook hands with the
colonel, and asked Anne and Lydia to come to see her.
"Don't you do something, you two girls?" she asked, with her inviting
smile. "I'm sure Jeff wrote me so."
"We dance," said Lydia, in a bubbling bright voice, as if she had run
forward to be sure to get the chance of answering. "Let us come and
dance for you. We can dance all sorts of things."
And Lydia was so purely childlike and dear, after this talk of
punishments and duties, that involuntarily they all laughed and she
looked abashed.
"Perhaps you know folk-dances," said Miss Amabel.
"Oh, yes," said Lydia, getting back her spirit. "There isn't one we
don't know."
And they laughed again and Miss Amabel tied on her bonnet and went away
attended by Choate, with Weedon Moore a pace behind, holding his hat,
until he got out of the house, as it might be at a grotesque funeral.
Miss Amabel had called back to Lydia:
"You must come and train my classes in their national dancing."
Lydia, behind the colonel and Jeff as they stood at the front door,
seized Anne's hand and did a few ecstatic little steps.
The colonel was bright-eyed and satisfied with his evening. "Jeff," said
he, before they turned to separate, "I always thought you were meant for
a writer."
Jeff looked at him in a dull denial, as if he wondered how any man, life
being what it is, could seek to bound the lot of another man. His face,
flushed darkly, was seamed with feeling.
"Father," said he, in a voice of mysterious reproach, "I don't know what
I was meant to be."
X
It was Lydia who found out what Jeff meant himself to be, for the next
day, in course of helping Mary Nellen, she went to his door with towels.
Mr. Jeffrey had gone out, Mary Nellen said. She had seen him spading in
the orchard, and if Miss Lydia wanted to carry up the towels! there was
the dusting, too. Lydia, at the open door, stopped, for Jeff was sitting
at his writing table, paper before him. He flicked a look at her,
absently, as at an intruder as insignificant as undesired, and because
the sacredness of his task was plain to her she took it humbly. But
Jeff, then actually seeing her, rose and put down his pen.
"I'll take those," he said.
It troubled him vaguely to find her and Anne doing tasks. He had a
worried sense that he and the colonel were living on their kind offices,
and he felt like assuring Lydia she shouldn't carry towels about for
either of them long. Then, as she did not yield them but looked,
housekeeper-wise, at the rack still loaded with its tumbled reserves, he
added:
"Give them here."
"You mustn't leave your writing," said Lydia primly if shyly, and
delivered up her charge.
Jeff stepped out after her into the hall. He had left dull issues at his
table, and Lydia seemed very sweet, her faith in him chiefly, though he
didn't want any more of it.
"Don't worry about my writing," said he.
"Oh, no," she answered, turning on him the clarity of her glance. "I
shouldn't. Authors never want it talked about."
"That's not it," said he. She found him tremendously in earnest. "I'm
not an author."
"But you will be when this is written."
"I don't know," he said, "how I can make you see. The whole thing is so
foreign to your ideas about books and life. It only happened that I met
a man--in there--" he hesitated over it, not as regarding delicacies but
only as they might affect her--"a man like a million others, some of 'em
in prison, more that ought to be. Well, he talked to me. I saw what
brought him where he was. It was picturesque."
"You want other people to understand," said Lydia, bright-eyed, now she
was following him. "For--a warning."
His frown was heavy. Now he was trying to follow her.
"No," he said, "you're off there. I don't take things that way. But I
did see it so plain I wanted everybody to see it, too. Maybe that was
why I did want to write it down. Maybe I wanted to write it for myself,
so I should see it plainer. It fascinated me."
Lydia felt a helpless yearning, because things were being so hard for
him. She wished for Anne who always knew, and with a word could help you
out when your elucidation failed.
"You see," Jeff was going on, "there's this kind of a brute born into
the world now, the kind that knows how to make money, and as soon as
he's discovered his knack, he's got the mania to make more. It's an
obligation, an obsession. Maybe it's only the game. He's in it, just as
much as if he'd got a thousand men behind him, all looting territory. It
might be for a woman. But it's the game. And it's a queer game. It cuts
him off. He's outside."
And here Lydia had a simple and very childlike thought, so inevitable to
her that she spoke without consideration.
"You were outside, too."
Jeff gave a little shake of the head, as if that didn't matter now he
was here and explaining to her.
"And the devil of it is, after they're once outside they don't know they
are."
"Do you mean, when they've done something and been found guilty and--"
"I mean all along the line. When they've begun to think they'll make
good, when they've begun to play the game."
"For money?"
"Yes, for money, for pretty gold and dirty bills and silver. That's what
it amounts to, when you get down to it, behind all the bank balances and
equities. There's a film that grows over your eyes, you look at nothing
else. You don't think about--" his voice dropped and he glanced out at
the walled orchard as if it were even a sacred place--"you don't think
about grass, and dirt, and things. You're thinking about the game."
"Well," said Lydia joyously, seeing a green pathway out, "now you've
found it's so, you don't need to think about it any more."
"That's precisely it," said he heavily. "I've got to think about it all
the time. I've got to make good."
"In the same way?" said Lydia, looking up at him childishly. "With
money?"
"Yes," said he, "with money. It's all I know. And without capital, too.
And I'm going to keep my head, and do it within the law. Yes, by God!
within the law. But I hate to do it. I hate it like the devil."
He looked so hard with resolution that she took the resolution for
pride, though she could not know whether it was a fine pride or a
heaven-defying one.
"You won't do just what you did before?" asserted Lydia, out of her
faith in him.
"Oh, yes, I shall."
She opened terrified eyes upon him.
"Be a promoter?"
"I don't know what I shall be. But I know the money game, and I shall
have to play it and make good."
She ventured a question touching on the fancies that were in her mind,
part of the bewildering drama that might attend on his return. She
faltered it out. It seemed too splendid really to assault fortune like
that. And yet perhaps not too splendid for him. This was the question.
"And pay back--" There she hesitated, and he finished for her.
"The money I lost in a hole? Well, we'll see." This last sounded
indulgent, as if he might add, "little sister ".
Lydia plucked up spirit.
"There's something else I hoped you'd do first."
"What is it?"
"I want you to prove you're innocent."
She found herself breathless over the words. They brought her very near
him, and after all she was not sure what kind of brother he was, save
that he had to be supremely loved. He looked pale to her now, of a
yellowed, unhappy hue, and he was staring at her fixedly.
"Innocent!" he repeated. "What do you mean by innocent?"
Lydia took heart again, since he really did invite her on.
"Why, of course," she said, "we all know--Farvie and Anne and I--we know
you never did it."
"Did what?"
"Lost all that money. Took it away from people."
The softness of her voice was moving to him. He saw she meant him very
well indeed.
"Lydia," said he, "I lost the money. Don't make any mistake about that."
"Yes, you were a promoter," she reminded him. "You were trying to get
something on the market." She seemed to be assuring him, in an agonised
way, of his own good faith. "And people bought shares. And you took
their money. And--" her voice broke here in a sob of irrepressible
sympathy--"and you lost it."
"Yes," said he patiently. "I found myself in a tight place and the
unexpected happened--the inconceivable. The market went to pieces. And
of course it was at the minute I was asked to account for the funds I
had. I couldn't. So I was a swindler. I was tried. I was sentenced, and
I went to prison. That's all."
"Oh," said Lydia passionately, "but do you suppose we don't know you're
not the only person concerned? Don't you suppose we know there's
somebody else to blame?"
Jeff turned on her a sudden look so like passion of a sort that she
trembled back from him. Why should he be angry with her? Did he stand by
Reardon to that extent?
"What do you mean?" he asked her. "Who's been talking to you?"
"We've all been talking," said Lydia, with a frank simplicity, "Farvie
and Anne and I. Of course we've talked. Especially Anne and I. We knew
you weren't to blame."
Jeff turned away from her and went back into his room. He shut the door,
and yet so quietly that she could not feel reproved. Only she was sad.
The way of being a sister was a harder one than she had looked for. But
she felt bound to him, even by stronger and stronger cords. He was hers,
Farvie's and Anne's and hers, however unlikely he was to take hold of
his innocence with firm hands and shake it in the public face.
Jeff, in his room, stood for a minute or more, hands in his pockets,
staring at the wall and absently thinking he remembered the paper on it
from his college days. But he recalled himself from the obvious. He
looked into his inner chamber of mind where he had forbidden himself to
glance since he had come home, lest he see there a confusion of idea and
desire that should make him the weaker in carrying out the
inevitabilities of his return. There was one thing in decency to be
expected of him at this point: to give his father a period of
satisfaction before he left him to do what he had not yet clearly
determined on. It was sufficiently convincing to tell Lydia he intended
to make good, but he had not much idea what he meant by it. He was
conscious chiefly that he felt marred somehow, jaded, harassed by life,
smeared by his experience of living in a gentlemanly jail. The fact that
he had left it did not restore to him his old feeling of owning the
earth. He had, from the moment of his conviction and sentence, been
outside, and his present liberty could not at once convey him inside.
He was, he knew, for one thing, profoundly tired. Nothing, he felt sure,
could give him back the old sense of air in his lungs. Confinement had
not deprived him of air. He had smiled grimly to himself once or twice,
as he thought what the sisters' idea of his prison was likely to be.
They probably had conjured up fetid dungeons. There were chains of a
surety, certainly a clank or two. As he remembered it, there was a
clanking in his mind, quite sufficient to fulfil the prison ideal. And
then he thought, with a sudden desire for man's company, the expectation
that would take you for granted, that he'd go down and see old Reardon.
Reardon had not been to call, but Jeff was too sick of solitariness to
mind that.
He went out without seeing anybody, the colonel, he knew, being at his
gentle task of cramming for Mary Nellen's evening lesson. Jeff had not
been in the street since the walk he had cut short with Madame Beattie.
He felt strange out in the world now, as if the light blinded him or the
sun burned him, or there were an air too chill--all, he reflected, in a
grim discovery, the consequence of being outside and not wanting houses
to see you or persons to bow and offer friendly hands. Reardon would
blow such vapours away with a breath of his bluff voice. But as he
reached the vestibule of the yellow house, Reardon himself was coming
out and Jeff, with a sick surprise, understood that Reardon was not
prepared to see him.
XI
Reardon stood there in his middle-aged ease, the picture of a man who
has nothing to do more hazardous than to take care of himself. His hands
were exceedingly well-kept. His cravat, of a dull blue, was suited to
his fresh-coloured face, and, though this is too far a quest for the
casual eye, his socks also were blue, an admirable match. Jeff was not
accustomed, certainly in these later years, to noting clothes; but he
did feel actually unkempt before this mirror of the time. Yet why? For
in the old days also Reardon had been rather vain of outward conformity.
He had striven then to make up by every last nicety of dress and manner
for the something his origin had lacked. It was not indeed the
perfection of his dress that disconcerted; it was the kind of man
Reardon had grown to be: for of him the clothes did, in their degree,
testify. Jeffrey was conscious that every muscle in Reardon's body had
its just measure of attention. Reardon had organised the care of that
being who was himself. He had provided richly for his future, wiped out
his past where it threatened to gall him, and was giving due
consideration to his present. He meant supremely to be safe, and to that
end he had entrenched himself on every side. Jeff felt a very
disorganised, haphazard sort of being indeed before so complete a
creature. And Reardon, so far from breaking into the old intimacy that
Jeff had seen still living behind them in a sunny calm, only waiting for
the gate to be opened on it again, stood there distinctly embarrassed
and nothing more.
"Jeff!" said he. "How are you?" That was not enough. He found it
lacking, and added, with a deepened shade of warmth, "How are you, old
man?"
Now he put out his hand, but it had been so long in coming that Jeff
gave no sign of seeing it.
"I'll walk along with you," he said.
"No, no." Reardon was calling upon reserves of decency and good feeling.
"You'll do nothing of the sort. Come in."
"No," said Jeff. "I was walking. I'll go along with you."
Now Reardon came down the steps and put an insistent hand on his
shoulder.
"Jeff," said he, "come on in. You surprised me. That's the truth. I
wasn't prepared. I hadn't looked for you."
Jeff went up the steps; it seemed, indeed, emotional to do less. But at
the door he halted and his eyes sought the chairs at hand.
"Can't we," said he, "sit down here?"
Reardon, with a courteous acquiescence, went past one of the chairs,
leaving it for him, and dropped into another. Jeff took his, and found
nothing to say. One of them had got to make a civil effort. Jeff,
certain he had no business there, took his hand at it.
"This was the old Pelham house?"
Reardon assented, in evident relief, at so remote a topic.
"I bought it six years ago. Had it put in perfect repair. The plumbing
cost me--well! you know what old houses are."
Jeff turned upon him.
"Jim," said he quietly, "what's the matter?"
"Nothing's the matter," said Reardon, blustering. "My dear boy! I'm no
end glad to see you."
"Oh, no," said Jeff. "No, you're not. You've kicked me out. What's the
reason? My late residence? Oh, come on, man! Didn't expect to see me?
Didn't want to? That it?"
Suddenly the telephone rang, and the English man-servant came out and
said, with a perfect decorum:
"Mrs. Blake at the telephone, sir."
Jeff was looking at Reardon when he got the message and saw his small
blue eyes suffused and the colour hot in his cheeks. The blond well-kept
man seemed to be swelling with embarrassment.
"Excuse me," he said, got up and went inside, and Blake heard his voice
in brief replies.
When he came back, he looked harassed, fatigued even. His colour had
gone down and left him middle-aged. Jeff had not only been awaiting him,
but his glance had, as well. His eyes were fixed upon the spot where
Reardon's face, when he again occupied his chair, would be ready to be
interrogated.
"What Mrs. Blake?" Jeff asked.
Reardon sat down and fussed with the answer.
"What Mrs. Blake?" he repeated, and flicked a spot of dust from his
trousered ankle lifted to inspection.
"Yes," said Jeff, with an outward quiet. "Was that my wife?"
Again the colour rose in Reardon's face. It was the signal of an emotion
that gave him courage.
"Why, yes," he said, "it was."
"What did she want?"
"Jeff," said Reardon, "it's no possible business of yours what Esther
wants."
"You call her Esther?"
"I did then."
An outraged instinct of possession was rising in Reardon. Esther
suddenly meant more to him than she had in all this time when she had
been meaning a great deal. Alston Choate had power to rouse this
primitive rage in him, but he could always conquer it by reasoning that
Alston wouldn't take her if he could get her. There were too many
inherited reserves in Alston. Actually, Reardon thought, Alston wouldn't
really want a woman he had to take unguardedly. But here was the man
who, by every rigour of conventional life, had a right to her. It could
hardly be borne. Reardon wasn't used to finding himself dominated by
primal impulses. They weren't, his middle-aged conclusions told him,
safe. But now he got away from himself slightly and the freedom of it,
while it was exciting, made him ill at ease. The impulse to speak really
got the better of him.
"Look here, Blake," he said--and both of them realised that it was the
first time he had used that surname; Jeff had always been a boy to
him--"it's very unwise of you to come back here at all."
"Very unwise?" Jeff repeated, in an unmixed amazement, "to come back to
Addington? My father's here."
"Your father needn't have been here," pursued Reardon doggedly. Entered
upon what seemed a remonstrance somebody ought to make, he was
committed, he thought, to going on. "It was an exceedingly ill-judged
move for you all, very ill-judged indeed."
Jeff sat looking at him from a sternness that made a definite setting
for the picture of his wonder. Yet he seemed bent only upon
understanding.
"I don't say you came back to make trouble," Reardon went on, pursued
now by the irritated certainty that he had adopted a course and had got
to justify it. "But you're making it."
"How am I making it?"
"Why, you're making her damned uncomfortable."
"Who?"
Reardon had boggled over the name. He hardly liked to say Esther again,
since it had been ill-received, and he certainly wouldn't say "your
wife". But he had to choose and did it at a jump.
"Esther," he said, fixing upon that as the least offensive to himself.
"How am I making my wife uncomfortable?" Jeff inquired.
"Why, here you are," Reardon blundered, "almost within a stone's throw.
She can't even go into the street without running a chance of meeting
you."
Jeff threw back his head and laughed.
"No," he said, "she can't, that's a fact. She can't go into the street
without running the risk of meeting me. But if you hadn't told me,
Reardon, I give you my word I shouldn't have thought of the risk she
runs. No, I shouldn't have thought of it."
Reardon drew a long breath. He had, it seemed to him, after all done
wisely. The note of human brotherhood came back into his voice, even an
implication that presently it might be actually soothing.
"Well, now you do see, you'll agree with me. You can't annoy a woman.
You can't keep her in a state of apprehension."
Jeff had risen, and Reardon, too, got on his feet. Jeff seemed to be
considering, and very gravely, and Reardon, frowning, watched him.
"No," said Jeff. "No. Certainly you can't annoy a woman." He turned upon
Reardon, but with no suggestion of resentment. "What makes you think I
should annoy her?"
"Why, it isn't what you'd wilfully do." Now that the danger of violence
was over, Reardon felt that he could meet his man with a perfect
reasonableness, and tell him what nobody else was likely to. "It's your
being here. She can't help going back. She remembers how things used to
be. And then she gets apprehensive."
