"Yes."
"It's amusing, isn't it? A careless and innocent word to that old
busybody, Ahmed Mirka Pasha, at my table--that began it. Then another
word to Izzet Bey. And I had scarcely time to realise what had
happened--barely time to telegraph James in New York--before their
entire underground machinery was set in motion to seize those wretched
papers in Brookhollow!"
Neeland said:
"You don't know even yet, Princess, how amazingly fast that machinery
worked."
"Tell me now, James. I have time enough to write my warning since it
is already too late." And she seated herself on the sofa and drew
Ruhannah down beside her.
"Listen, dear," she said with pretty mockery, "here is a most worthy
young man who is simply dying to let us know how picturesque a man can
be when he tries to."
Neeland laughed:
"The only trouble with me," he retorted, "is that I've a rather
hopeless habit of telling the truth. Otherwise there'd be some chance
for me as a hero in what I'm going to tell you."
And he began with his first encounter with Ilse Dumont in Rue Carew's
house at Brookhollow. After he had been speaking for less than a
minute, Rue Carew's hands tightened in the clasp of the Princess Naïa,
who glanced at the girl and noticed that she had lost her colour.
And Neeland continued his partly playful, partly serious narrative of
"moving accidents by flood and field," aware of the girl's deep,
breathless interest, moved by it, and, conscious of it, the more
inclined to avoid the picturesque and heroic, and almost ashamed to
talk of himself at all under the serious beauty of the girl's clear
eyes.
But he could scarcely tell his tale and avoid mentioning himself; he
was the centre of it all, the focus of the darts of Fate, and there
was no getting away from what happened to himself.
So he made the melodrama a comedy, and the moments of deadly peril he
treated lightly. And one thing he avoided altogether, and that was
how he had kissed Ilse Dumont.
When he finished his account of his dreadful situation in the
stateroom of Ilse Dumont, and how at the last second her unerring
shots had shattered the bomb clock, cut the guy-rope, and smashed the
water-jug which deluged the burning fuses, he added with a very
genuine laugh:
"If only some photographer had taken a few hundred feet of film for me
I could retire on an income in a year and never do another stroke of
honest work!"
The Princess smiled, mechanically, but Rue Carew dropped her white
face on the Princess Naïa's shoulder as though suddenly fatigued.
CHAPTER XXVII
FROM FOUR TO FIVE
The Princess Mistchenka and Rue Carew had retired to their respective
rooms for that hour between four and five in the afternoon, which the
average woman devotes to cat-naps or to that aimless feminine fussing
which must ever remain a mystery to man.
The afternoon had turned very warm; Neeland, in his room, lay on the
lounge in his undershirt and trousers, having arrived so far toward
bathing and changing his attire.
No breeze stirred the lattice blinds hanging over both open windows;
the semi-dusk of the room was pierced here and there by slender shafts
of sunlight which lay almost white across the carpet and striped the
opposite wall; the rue Soleil d'Or was very silent in the July
afternoon.
And Neeland lay there thinking about all that had happened to him and
trying to bring it home to himself and make it seem plausible and
real; and could not.
For even now the last ten days of his life seemed like a story he had
read concerning someone else. Nor did it seem to him that he
personally had known all those people concerned in this wild,
exaggerated, grotesque story. They, too, took their places on the
printed page, appearing, lingering, disappearing, reappearing, as
chapter succeeded chapter in a romance too obvious, too palpably
sensational to win the confidence and credulity of a young man of
today.
Fed to repletion on noisy contemporary fiction, his finer perception
blunted by the daily and raucous yell of the New York press, his
imagination too long over-strained by Broadway drama and now flaccid
and incapable of further response to its leering or shrieking appeal,
the din of twentieth-century art fell on nerveless ears and on a brain
benumbed and sceptical.
And so when everything that he had found grotesque, illogical,
laboured, obvious, and clamorously redundant in literature and the
drama began to happen and continued to happen in real life to him--and
went on happening and involving himself and others all around him in
the pleasant July sunshine of 1914, this young man, made
intellectually blasé, found himself without sufficient capacity to
comprehend it.
There was another matter with which his mind was struggling as he lay
there, his head cradled on one elbow, watching the thin blue spirals
from his cigarette mount straight to the ceiling, and that was the
metamorphosis of Rue Carew.
Where was the thin girl he remembered--with her untidy chestnut hair
and freckles, and a rather sweet mouth--dressed in garments the only
mission of which was to cover a flat chest and frail body and limbs
whose too rapid growth had outstripped maturity?
To search for her he went back to the beginning, where a little girl
in a pink print dress, bare-legged and hatless, loitered along an
ancient rail fence and looked up shyly at him as he warned her to keep
out of range of the fusillade from the bushes across the pasture.
He thought of her again at the noisy party in Gayfield on that white
night in winter; visualised the tall, shy, overgrown girl who danced
with him and made no complaint when her slim foot was trodden on. And
again he remembered the sleigh and the sleighbells clashing and
tinkling under the moon; the light from her doorway, and how she stood
looking back at him; and how, on the mischievous impulse of the
moment, he had gone back and kissed her----
At the memory an odd sensation came over him, scaring him a little.
How on earth had he ever had the temerity to do such a thing to her!
And, as he thought of this exquisite, slender, clear-eyed young girl
who had greeted him at the Paris terminal--this charming embodiment of
all that is fresh and sweet and fearless--in her perfect hat and gown
of mondaine youth and fashion, the memory of his temerity appalled
him.
Imagine his taking an unencouraged liberty now!
Nor could he dare imagine encouragement from the Rue Carew so
amazingly revealed to him.
Out of what, in heaven's name, had this lovely girl developed? Out of
a shy, ragged, bare-legged child, haunting the wild blackberry tangles
in Brookhollow?
Out of the frail, charmingly awkward, pathetic, freckled mill-hand in
her home-made party clothes, the rather sweet expression of whose
mouth once led him to impudent indiscretion?
Out of what had she been evolved--this young girl whom he had left
just now standing beside her boudoir door with the Princess Naïa's arm
around her waist? Out of the frightened, white-lipped, shabby girl who
had come dragging her trembling limbs and her suitcase up the dark
stairway outside his studio? Out of the young thing with sagging hair,
crouched in an armchair beside his desk, where her cheap hat lay with
two cheap hatpins sticking in the crown? Out of the fragile figure
buried in the bedclothes of a stateroom berth, holding out to him a
thin, bare arm in voiceless adieu?
And Neeland lay there thinking, his head on his elbow, the other arm
extended--from the fingers of which the burnt-out cigarette presently
fell to the floor.
He thought to himself:
"She is absolutely beautiful; there's no denying that. It's not her
clothes or the way she does her hair, or her voice, or the way she
moves, or how she looks at a man; it's the whole business. And the
whole bally business is a miracle, that's all. Good Lord! And to think
I ever had the nerve--the nerve!"
He swung himself to a sitting posture, sat gazing into space for a few
moments, then continued to undress by pulling off one shoe, lighting a
cigarette, and regarding his other foot fixedly.
That is the manner in which the vast majority of young men do their
deepest thinking.
However, before five o'clock he had scrubbed himself and arrayed his
well constructed person in fresh linen and outer clothing; and now he
sauntered out through the hallway and down the stairs to the rear
drawing-room, where a tea-table had been brought in and tea
paraphernalia arranged. Although the lamp under the kettle had been
lighted, nobody was in the room except a West Highland terrier curled
up on a lounge, who, without lifting his snow-white head, regarded
Neeland out of the wisest and most penetrating eyes the young man had
ever encountered.
Here was a personality! Here was a dog not to be approached lightly or
with flippant familiarity. No! That small, long, short-legged body
with its thatch of wiry white hair was fairly instinct with dignity,
wisdom, and uncompromising self-respect.
"That dog," thought Neeland, venturing to seat himself on a chair
opposite, "is a Presbyterian if ever there was one. And I, for one,
haven't the courage to address him until he deigns to speak to me."
He looked respectfully at the dog, glanced at the kettle which had
begun to sizzle a little, then looked out of the long windows into the
little walled garden where a few slender fruit trees grew along the
walls in the rear of well-kept flower beds, now gay with phlox,
larkspur, poppies, and heliotrope, and edged with the biggest and
bluest pansies he had ever beheld.
On the wall a Peacock butterfly spread its brown velvet and gorgeously
eyed wings to the sun's warmth; a blackbird with brilliant yellow bill
stood astride a peach twig and poured out a bubbling and incessant
melody full of fluted grace notes. And on the grass oval a kitten
frisked with the ghosts of last month's dandelions, racing after the
drifting fluff and occasionally keeling over to attack its own tail,
after the enchanting manner of all kittens.
A step behind him and Neeland turned. It was Marotte, the butler, who
presented a thick, sealed envelope to him on his salver, bent to turn
down the flame under the singing silver kettle, and withdrew without a
sound.
Neeland glanced at the letter in perplexity, opened the envelope and
the twice-folded sheets of letter paper inside, and read this odd
communication:
                 
Have I been fair to you? Did I keep my word? Surely you must now, in
your heart, acquit me of treachery--of any premeditated violence
toward you.
I never dreamed that those men would come to my stateroom. That plan
had been discussed, but was abandoned because it appeared impossible
to get hold of you.
And also--may I admit it without being misunderstood?--I absolutely
refused to permit any attempt involving your death.
When the trap shut on you, there in my stateroom, it shut also on me.
I was totally unprepared; I was averse to murder; and also I had given
you my word of honour.
Judge, then, of my shame and desperation--my anger at being entrapped
in a false position involving the loss in your eyes of my personal
honour!
It was unbearable: and I did what I could to make it clear to you that
I had not betrayed you. But my comrades do not yet know that I had any
part in it; do not yet understand why the ship was not blown to
splinters. They are satisfied that I made a mistake in the rendezvous.
And, so far, no suspicion attaches to me; they believe the mechanism
of the clock failed them. And perhaps it is well for me that they
believe this.
It is, no doubt, a matter of indifference to you how the others and I
reached safety. I have no delusions concerning any personal and kindly
feeling on your part toward me. But one thing you can not--dare
not--believe, and that is that I proved treacherous to you and false
to my own ideas of honour.
And now let me say one more thing to you--let me say it out of
a--friendship--for which you care nothing--could not care anything.
And that is this: your task is accomplished. You could not possibly
have succeeded. There is no chance for recovery of those papers. Your
mission is definitely ended.
Now, I beg of you to return to America. Keep clear of entanglement in
these events which are beginning to happen in such rapid succession in
Europe. They do not concern you; you have nothing to do with them, no
interest in them. Your entry into affairs which can not concern you
would be insulting effrontery and foolish bravado.
I beg you to heed this warning. I know you to be personally
courageous; I suppose that fear of consequences would not deter you
from intrusion into any affair, however dangerous; but I dare hope
that perhaps in your heart there may have been born a little spark of
friendliness--a faint warmth of recognition for a woman who took some
slight chance with death to prove to you that her word of honour is
not lightly given or lightly broken.
So, if you please, our ways part here with this letter sent to you by
hand.
I shall not forget the rash but generous boy I knew who called me
                                                         Scheherazade.
CHAPTER XXVIII
TOGETHER
He sat there, holding the letter and looking absently over it at the
little dog who had gone to sleep again. There was no sound in the room
save the faint whisper of the tea-kettle. The sunny garden outside was
very still, too; the blackbird appeared to doze on his peach twig; the
kitten had settled down with eyes half closed and tail tucked under
flank.
The young man sat there with his letter in his hand and eyes lost in
retrospection for a while.
In his hand lay evidence that the gang which had followed him, and
through which he no longer doubted that he had been robbed, was now in
Paris.
And yet he could not give this information to the Princess Naïa. Here
was a letter which he could not show. Something within him forbade it,
some instinct which he did not trouble to analyse.
And this instinct sent the letter into his breast pocket as a light
sound came to his ears; and the next instant Rue Carew entered the
further drawing-room.
The little West Highland terrier looked up, wagged that section of him
which did duty as a tail, and watched her as Neeland rose to seat her
at the tea-table.
"Sandy," she said to the little dog, "if you care to say 'Down with
the Sultan,' I shall bestow one lump of sugar upon you."
"Yap-yap!" said the little dog.
"Give it to him, please----" Rue handed the sugar to Neeland, who
delivered it gravely.
"That's because I want Sandy to like you," she added.
Neeland regarded the little dog and addressed him politely:
"I shouldn't dare call you Sandy on such brief acquaintance," he said;
"but may I salute you as Alexander? Thank you, Alexander."
He patted the dog, whose tail made a slight, sketchy motion of
approval.
"Now," said Rue Carew, "you are friends, and we shall all be very
happy together, I'm sure.... Princess Naïa said we were not to wait.
Tell me how to fix your tea."
He explained. About to begin on a buttered croissant, he desisted
abruptly and rose to receive the Princess, who entered with the light,
springy step characteristic of her, gowned in one of those Parisian
afternoon creations which never are seen outside that capital, and
never will be.
"Far too charming to be real," commented Neeland. "You are a pretty
fairy story, Princess Naïa, and your gown is a miracle tale which
never was true."
He had not dared any such flippancy with Rue Carew, and the girl, who
knew she was exquisitely gowned, felt an odd little pang in her heart
as this young man's praise of the Princess Mistchenka fell so easily
and gaily from his lips. He might have noticed her gown, as it had
been chosen with many doubts, much hesitation, and anxious
consideration, for him.
She flushed a little at the momentary trace of envy:
"You are too lovely for words," she said, rising. But the Princess
gently forced her to resume her seat.
"If this young man has any discrimination," she said, "he won't
hesitate with the golden apple, Ruhannah."
Rue laughed and flushed:
"He hasn't noticed my gown, and I wore it for him to notice," she
said. "But he was too deeply interested in Sandy and in tea and
croissants----"
"I did notice it!" said Neeland. And, to that young man's surprise
and annoyance, his face grew hot with embarrassment. What on earth
possessed him to blush like a plow-boy! He suddenly felt like one,
too, and turned sharply to the little dog, perplexed, irritated with
himself and his behaviour.
Behind him the Princess was saying:
"The car is here. I shan't stop for tea, dear. In case anything
happens, I am at the Embassy."
"The Russian Embassy," repeated Rue.
"Yes. I may be a little late. We are to dine here en famille at
eight. You will entertain James----
"James!" she repeated, addressing him. "Do you think Ruhannah
sufficiently interesting to entertain you while I am absent?"
But all his aplomb, his lack of self-consciousness, seemed to be gone;
and Neeland made some reply which seemed to him both obvious and dull.
And hated himself because he found himself so unaccountably abashed,
realising that he was afraid of the opinions that this young girl
might entertain concerning him.
"I'm going," said the Princess. "Au revoir, dear; good-bye,
James----"
She looked at him keenly when he turned to face her, smiled, still
considering him as though she had unexpectedly discovered a new
feature in his expressive face.
Whatever it was she discovered seemed to make her smile a trifle more
mechanical; she turned slowly to Rue Carew, hesitated, then, nodding
a gay adieu, turned and left the room with Neeland at her elbow.
"I'll tuck you in," he began; but she said:
"Thanks; Marotte will do that." And left him at the door.
When the car had driven away down the rue Soleil d'Or, Neeland
returned to the little drawing-room where Rue was indulging Sandy with
small bits of sugar.
He took up cup and buttered croissant, and for a little while
nothing was said, except to Sandy who, upon invitation, repeated his
opinion of the Sultan and snapped in the offered emolument with
unsatiated satisfaction.
To Rue Carew as well as to Neeland there seemed to be a slight
constraint between them--something not entirely new to her since they
had met again after two years.
In the two years of her absence she had been very faithful to the
memory of his kindness; constant in the friendship which she had given
him unasked--given him first, she sometimes thought, when she was a
little child in a ragged pink frock, and he was a wonderful young man
who had taken the trouble to cross the pasture and warn her out of
range of the guns.
He had always held his unique place in her memory and in her innocent
affections; she had written to him again and again, in spite of his
evident lack of interest in the girl to whom he had been kind. Rare,
brief letters from him were read and reread, and laid away with her
best-loved treasures. And when the prospect of actually seeing him
again presented itself, she had been so frankly excited and happy that
the Princess Mistchenka could find in the girl's unfeigned delight
nothing except a young girl's touching and slightly amusing
hero-worship.
But with her first exclamation when she caught sight of him at the
terminal, something about her preconceived ideas of him, and her
memory of him, was suddenly and subtly altered, even while his name
fell from her excited lips.
Because she had suddenly realised that he was even more wonderful than
she had expected or remembered, and that she did not know him at
all--that she had no knowledge of this tall, handsome, well-built
young fellow with his sunburnt features and his air of smiling
aloofness and of graceful assurance, almost fascinating and a trifle
disturbing.
Which had made the girl rather grave and timid, uncertain of the
estimation in which he might hold her; no longer so sure of any
encouragement from him in her perfectly obvious attitude of a friend
of former days.
And so, shyly admiring, uncertain, inclined to warm response at any
advance from this wonderful young man, the girl had been trying to
adjust herself to this new incarnation of a certain James Neeland who
had won her gratitude and who had awed her, too, from the time when,
as a little girl, she had first beheld him.
She lifted her golden-grey eyes to him; a little unexpected sensation
not wholly unpleasant checked her speech for a moment.
This was odd, even unaccountable. Such awkwardness, such disquieting
and provincial timidity wouldn't do.
"Would you mind telling me a little about Brookhollow?" she ventured.
Certainly he would tell her. He laid aside his plate and tea cup and
told her of his visits there when he had walked over from Neeland's
Mills in the pleasant summer weather.
Nothing had changed, he assured her; mill-dam and pond and bridge, and
the rushing creek below were exactly as she knew them; her house stood
there at the crossroads, silent and closed in the sunshine, and under
the high moon; pickerel and sunfish still haunted the shallow pond;
partridges still frequented the alders and willows across her pasture;
fireflies sailed through the summer night; and the crows congregated
in the evening woods and talked over the events of the day.
"And my cat? You wrote that you would take care of Adoniram."
"Adoniram is an aged patriarch and occupies the place of honour in my
father's house," he said.
"He is well?"
"Oh, yes. He prefers his food cut finely, that is all."
"I don't suppose he will live very long."
"He's pretty old," admitted Neeland.
She sighed and looked out of the window at the kitten in the garden.
And, after an interval of silence:
"Our plot in the cemetery--is it--pretty?"
"It is beautiful," he said, "under the great trees. It is well cared
for. I had them plant the shrubs and flowers you mentioned in the list
you sent me."
"Thank you." She lifted her eyes again to him. "I wonder if you
realise how--how splendid you have always been to me."
Surprised, he reddened, and said awkwardly that he had done nothing.
Where was the easy, gay and debonaire assurance of this fluent young
man? He was finding nothing to say to Rue Carew, or saying what he
said as crudely and uncouthly as any haymaker in Gayfield.
He looked up, exasperated, and met her eyes squarely. And Rue Carew
blushed.
They both looked elsewhere at once, but in the girl's breast a new
pulse beat; a new instinct stirred, blindly importuning her for
recognition; a new confusion threatened the ordered serenity of her
mind, vaguely menacing it with unaccustomed questions.
Then the instinct of self-command returned; she found composure with
an effort.
"You haven't asked me," she said, "about my work. Would you like to
know?"
He said he would; and she told him--chary of self-praise, yet eager
that he should know that her masters had spoken well of her.
"And you know," she said, "every week, now, I contribute a drawing to
the illustrated paper I wrote to you about. I sent one off yesterday.
But," and she laughed shyly, "my nostrils are no longer filled with
pride, because I am not contented with myself any more. I wish to
do--oh, so much better work!"
"Of course. Contentment in creative work means that we have nothing
more to create."
She nodded and smiled:
"The youngest born is the most tenderly cherished--until a new one
comes. It is that way with me; I am all love and devotion and
tenderness and self-sacrifice while fussing over my youngest. Then a
still younger comes, and I become like a heartless cat and drive away
all progeny except the newly born."
She sighed and smiled and looked up at him:
"It can't be helped, I suppose--that is, if one's going to have more
progeny."
"It's our penalty for producing. Only the newest counts. And those to
come are to be miracles. But they never are."
She nodded seriously.
"When there is a better light I should like to show you some of my
studies," she ventured. "No, not now. I am too vain to risk anything
except the kindest of morning lights. Because I do hope for your
approval----"
"I know they're good," he said. And, half laughingly: "I'm beginning
to find out that you're a rather wonderful and formidable and
overpowering girl, Ruhannah."
"You don't think so!" she exclaimed, enchanted. "Do you? Oh, dear!
Then I feel that I ought to show you my pictures and set you right
immediately----" She sprang to her feet. "I'll get them; I'll be only
a moment----"
She was gone before he discovered anything to say, leaving him to walk
up and down the deserted room and think about her as clearly as his
somewhat dislocated thoughts permitted, until she returned with both
arms full of portfolios, boards, and panels.
"Now," she said with a breathless smile, "you may mortify my pride and
rebuke my vanity. I deserve it; I need it; but Oh!--don't be too
severe----"
"Are you serious?" he asked, looking up in astonishment from the first
astonishing drawing in colour which he held between his hands.
"Serious? Of course----" She met his eyes anxiously, then her own
became incredulous and the swift colour dyed her face.
"Do you like my work?" she asked in a fainter voice.
"Like it!" He continued to stare at the bewildering grace and colour
of the work, turned to another and lifted it to the light:
"What's this?" he demanded.
"A monotype."
"You did it?"
"Y-yes."
He seemed unable to take his eyes from it--from the exquisite figures
there in the sun on the bank of the brimming river under an
iris-tinted April sky.
"What do you call it, Rue?"
"Baroque."
He continued to scrutinise it in silence, then drew another carton
prepared for oil from the sheaf on the sofa.
Over autumn woods, in a windy sky, high-flying crows were buffeted and
blown about. From the stark trees a few phantom leaves clung,
fluttering; and the whole scene was possessed by sinuous, whirling
forms--mere glimpses of supple, exquisite shapes tossing, curling,
flowing through the naked woodland. A delicate finger caught at a dead
leaf here; there frail arms clutched at a bending, wind-tossed bough;
grey sky and ghostly forest were obsessed, bewitched by the winnowing,
driving torrent of airy, half seen spirits.
"The Winds," he said mechanically.
He looked at another--a sketch of the Princess Naïa. And somehow it
made him think of vast skies and endless plains and the tumult of
surging men and rattling lances.
"A Cossack," he said, half to himself. "I never before realised it."
And he laid it aside and turned to the next.
"I haven't brought any life studies or school drawings," she said. "I
thought I'd just show you the--the results of them and of--of whatever
is in me."
"I'm just beginning to understand what is in you," he said.
"Tell me--what is it?" she asked, almost timidly.
"Tell you?" He rose, stood by the window looking out, then turned to
her:
"What can I tell you?" he added with a short laugh. "What have I to
say to a girl who can do--these--after two years abroad?"
Sheer happiness kept her silent. She had not dared hope for such
approval. Even now she dared not permit herself to accept it.
"I have so much to say," she ventured, "and such an appalling amount
of work before I can learn to say it----"
"Your work is--stunning!" he said bluntly.
"You don't think so!" she exclaimed incredulously.
"Indeed I do! Look at what you have done in two years. Yes, grant all
your aptitude and talents, just look what you've accomplished and
where you are! Look at you yourself, too--what a stunning,
bewildering sort of girl you've developed into!"
"Jim Neeland!"
"Certainly, Jim Neeland, of Neeland's Mills, who has had years more
study than you have, more years of advantage, and who now is an
illustrator without anything in particular to distinguish him from the
several thousand other American illustrators----"
"Jim! Your work is charming!"
"How do you know?"
"Because I have everything you ever did! I sent for the magazines and
cut them out; and they are in my scrapbook----"
She hesitated, breathless, smiling back at him out of her beautiful
golden-grey eyes as though challenging him to doubt her loyalty or her
belief in him.
It was rather curious, too, for the girl was unusually intelligent and
discriminating; and Neeland's work was very, very commonplace.
His face had become rather sober, but the smile still lurked on his
lips.
"Rue," he said, "you are wonderfully kind. But I'm afraid I know about
my work. I can draw pretty well, according to school standards; and I
approach pretty nearly the same standards in painting. Probably that
is why I became an instructor at the Art League. But, so far, I
haven't done anything better than what is called 'acceptable.'"
"I don't agree with you," she said warmly.
"It's very kind of you not to." He laughed and walked to the window
again, and stood there looking out across the sunny garden. "Of
course," he added over his shoulder, "I expect to get along all right.
Mediocrity has the best of chances, you know."
"You are not mediocre!"
"No, I don't think I am. But my work is. And, do you know," he
continued thoughtfully, "that is very often the case with a man who is
better equipped to act than to tell with pen or pencil how others act.
I'm beginning to be afraid that I'm that sort, because I'm afraid that
I get more enjoyment out of doing things than in explaining with
pencil and paint how they are done."
But Rue Carew, seated on the arm of her chair, slowly shook her head:
"I don't think that those are the only alternatives; do you?"
"What other is there?"
She said, a little shyly:
"I think it is all right to do things if you like; make exact
pictures of how things are done if you choose; but it seems to me that
if one really has anything to say, one should show in one's pictures
how things might be or ought to be. Don't you?"
He seemed surprised and interested in her logic, and she took courage
to speak again in her pretty, deprecating way:
"If the function of painting and literature is to reflect reality, a
mirror would do as well, wouldn't it? But to reflect what might be or
what ought to be requires something more, doesn't it?"
"Imagination. Yes."
"A mind, anyway.... That is what I have thought; but I'm not at all
sure I am right."
"I don't know. The mind ought to be a mirror reflecting only the
essentials of reality."
"And that requires imagination, doesn't it?" she asked. "You see you
have put it much better than I have."
"Have I?" he returned, smiling. "After a while you'll persuade me that
I possess your imagination, Rue. But I don't."
"You do, Jim----"
"I'm sorry; I don't. You construct, I copy; you create, I ring changes
on what already is; you dissect, I skate over the surface of
things--Oh, Lord! I don't know what's lacking in me!" he added with
gay pretence of despair which possibly was less feigned than real.
"But I know this, Rue Carew! I'd rather experience something
interesting than make a picture of it. And I suppose that confession
is fatal."
"Why, Jim?"
"Because with me the pleasures of reality are substituted for the
pleasures of imagination. Not that I don't like to draw and paint. But
my ambition in painting is and always has been bounded by the visible.
And, although that does not prevent me from appreciation--from
understanding and admiring your work, for example--it sets an
impregnable limit to any such aspiration on my part----"
His mobile and youthful features had become very grave; he stood a
moment with lowered head as though what he was thinking of depressed
him; then the quick smile came into his face and cleared it, and he
said gaily:
"I'm an artistic Dobbin; a reliable, respectable sort of Fido on
whom editors can depend; that's all. Don't feel sorry for me," he
added, laughing; "my work will be very much in demand."
CHAPTER XXIX
EN FAMILLE
The Princess Mistchenka came leisurely and gracefully downstairs a
little before eight that evening, much pleased with her hair,
complexion, and gown.
She found Neeland alone in the music-room, standing in the attitude of
the conventional Englishman with his back to the fireless grate and
his hands clasped loosely behind him, waiting to be led out and fed.
The direct glance of undisguised admiration with which he greeted the
Princess Naïa confirmed the impression she herself had received from
her mirror, and brought an additional dash of colour into her delicate
brunette face.
"Is there any doubt that you are quite the prettiest objet d'art in
Paris?" he enquired anxiously, taking her hand; and her dark eyes were
very friendly as he saluted her finger-tips with the reverent and
slightly exaggerated appreciation of a connoisseur in sculpture.
"You hopeless Irishman," she laughed. "It's fortunate for women that
you're never serious, even with yourself."
"Princess Naïa," he remonstrated, "can nothing short of kissing you
convince you of my sincerity and----"
"Impudence?" she interrupted smilingly. "Oh, yes, I'm convinced,
James, that, lacking other material, you'd make love to a hitching
post."
His hurt expression and protesting gesture appealed to the universe
against misinterpretation, but the Princess Mistchenka laughed again
unfeelingly, and seated herself at the piano.
"Some day," she said, striking a lively chord or two, "I hope you'll
catch it, young man. You're altogether too free and easy with your
feminine friends.... What do you think of Rue Carew?"
"An astounding and enchanting transformation. I haven't yet recovered
my breath."
"When you do, you'll talk nonsense to the child, I suppose."
"Princess! Have I ever----"
"You talk little else, dear friend, when God sends a pretty fool to
listen!" She looked up at him from the keyboard over which her hands
were nervously wandering. "I ought to know," she said; "I also have
listened." She laughed carelessly, but her glance lingered for an
instant on his face, and her mirth did not sound quite spontaneous to
either of them.
Two years ago there had been an April evening after the opera, when,
in taking leave of her in her little salon, her hand had perhaps
retained his a fraction of a second longer than she quite intended;
and he had, inadvertently, kissed her.
He had thought of it as a charming and agreeable incident; what the
Princess Naïa Mistchenka thought of it she never volunteered. But she
so managed that he never again was presented with a similar
opportunity.
Perhaps they both were thinking of this rather ancient episode now,
for his face was touched with a mischievously reminiscent smile, and
she had lowered her head a trifle over the keyboard where her slim,
ivory-tinted hands still idly searched after elusive harmonies in the
subdued light of the single lamp.
"There's a man dining with us," she remarked, "who has the same
irresponsible and casual views on life and manners which you
entertain. No doubt you'll get along very well together."
"Who is he?"
"A Captain Sengoun, one of our attachés. It's likely you'll find a
congenial soul in this same Cossack whom we all call Alak." She added
maliciously: "His only logic is the impulse of the moment, and he is
known as Prince Erlik among his familiars. Erlik was the Devil, you
know----"
He was announced at that moment, and came marching in--a dark,
handsome, wiry young man with winning black eyes and a little black
moustache just shadowing his short upper lip--and a head shaped to
contain the devil himself--the most reckless looking head, Neeland
thought, that he ever had beheld in all his life.
But the young fellow's frank smile was utterly irresistible, and his
straight manner of facing one, and of looking directly into the eyes
of the person he addressed in his almost too perfect English, won any
listener immediately.
He bowed formally over Princess Naïa's hand, turned squarely on
Neeland when he was named to the American, and exchanged a firm clasp
with him. Then, to the Princess:
"I am late? No? Fancy, Princess--that great booby, Izzet Bey, must
stop me at the club, and I exceedingly pressed to dress and entirely
out of humour with all Turks. 'Eh bien, mon vieux!' said he in his
mincing manner of a nervous pelican, 'they're warming up the Balkan
boilers with Austrian pine. But I hear they're full of snow.' And I
said to him: 'Snow boils very nicely if the fire is sufficiently
persistent!' And I think Izzet Bey will find it so!"--with a quick
laugh of explanation to Neeland: "He meant Russian snow, you see; and
that boils beautifully if they keep on stoking the boiler with
Austrian fuel."
The Princess shrugged:
"What schoolboy repartée! Why did you answer him at all, Alak?"
"Well," explained the attaché, "as I was due here at eight I hadn't
time to take him by the nose, had I?"
Rue Carew entered and went to the Princess to make amends:
"I'm so sorry to be late!"--turned to smile at Neeland, then offered
her hand to the Russian. "How do you do, Prince Erlik?" she said with
the careless and gay cordiality of old acquaintance. "I heard you say
something about Colonel Izzet Bey's nose as I came in."
Captain Sengoun bowed over her slender white hand:
"The Mohammedan nose of Izzet Bey is an admirable bit of Oriental
architecture, Miss Carew. Why should it surprise you to hear me extol
its bizarre beauty?"
"Anyway," said the girl, "I'm contented that you left devilry for
revelry." And, Marotte announcing dinner, she took the arm of Captain
Sengoun as the Princess took Neeland's.
                 
Like all Russians and some Cossacks, Prince Alak ate and drank as
though it were the most delightful experience in life; and he did it
with a whole-souled heartiness and satisfaction that was flattering to
any hostess and almost fascinating to anybody observing him.
His teeth were even and very white; his appetite splendid: when he
did his goblet the honour of noticing it at all, it was to drain it;
when he resumed knife and fork he used them as gaily, as gracefully,
and as thoroughly as he used his sabre on various occasions.
He had taken an instant liking to Neeland, who seemed entirely
inclined to return it; and he talked a great deal to the American but
with a nice division of attention for the two ladies on either side.
"You know, Alak," said the Princess, "you need not torture yourself by
trying to converse with discretion; because Mr. Neeland knows about
many matters which concern us all."
"Ah! That is delightful! And indeed I was already quite assured of Mr.
Neeland's intelligent sympathy in the present state of European
affairs."
"He's done a little more than express sympathy," remarked the
Princess; and she gave a humorous outline of Neeland's part in the
affair of the olive-wood box.
"Fancy!" exclaimed Captain Sengoun. "That impudent canaille! Yes; I
heard at the Embassy what happened to that accursed box this morning.
Of course it is a misfortune, but as for me, personally, I don't
care----"
"It doesn't happen to concern you personally, Prince Erlik," said
Princess Naïa dryly.
"No," he admitted, unabashed by the snub, "it does not touch me.
Cavalry cannot operate on the Gallipoli Peninsula. Therefore, God be
thanked, I shall be elsewhere when the snow boils."
Rue tuned to Neeland:
"His one idea of diplomacy and war is a thousand Kuban Cossacks at
full speed."
"And that is an excellent idea, is it not, Kazatchka?" he said,
smiling impudently at the Princess, who only laughed at the
familiarity.
"I hope," added Captain Sengoun, "that I may live to gallop through a
few miles of diplomacy at full speed before they consign me to the
Opolchina." Turning to Neeland, "The reserve--the old man's home, you
know. God forbid!" And he drained his goblet and looked defiantly at
Rue Carew.
"A Cossack is a Cossack," said the Princess, "be he Terek or Kuban,
Don or Astrachan, and they all know as much about diplomacy as Prince
Erlik--or Izzet Bey's nose.... James, you are unusually silent, dear
friend. Are you regretting those papers?"
"It's a pity," he said. But he had not been thinking of the lost
papers; Rue Carew's beauty preoccupied him. The girl was in black,
which made her skin dazzling, and reddened the chestnut colour of her
hair.
Her superb young figure revealed an unsuspected loveliness where the
snowy symmetry of neck and shoulders and arms was delicately accented
by the filmy black of her gown.
He had never seen such a beautiful girl; she seemed more wonderful,
more strange, more aloof than ever. And this was what preoccupied and
entirely engaged his mind, and troubled it, so that his smile had a
tendency to become indefinite and his conversation mechanical at
times.
Captain Sengoun drained one more of numerous goblets; gazed
sentimentally at the Princess, then with equal sentiment at Rue
Carew.
"As for me," he said, with a carelessly happy gesture toward the
infinite, "plans are plans, and if they're stolen, tant pis! But
there are always Tartars in Tartary and Turks in Turkey. And, while
there are, there's hope for a poor devil of a Cossack who wants to
say a prayer in St. Sophia before he's gathered to his ancestors."
"Have any measures been taken at your Embassy to trace the plans?"
asked Neeland of the Princess.
"Of course," she said simply.
"Plans," remarked Sengoun, "are not worth the tcherkeske of an
honest Caucasian! A Khirgize pony knows more than any diplomat; and my
magaika is better than both!"
"All the same," said Rue Carew, "with those stolen plans in your
Embassy, Prince Erlik, you might even gallop a sotnia of your
Cossacks to the top of Achi-Baba."
"By heaven! I'd like to try!" he exclaimed, his black eyes ablaze.
"There are dongas," observed the Princess dryly.
"I know it. There are dongas every twenty yards; and Turkish gorse
that would stop a charging bull! My answer is, mount! trot! gallop!
and hurrah for Achi-Baba!"
"Very picturesque, Alak. But wouldn't it be nicer to be able to come
back again and tell us all about it?"
"As for that," he said with his full-throated, engaging laugh, "no
need to worry, Princess, for the newspapers would tell the story. What
is this Gallipoli country, anyway, that makes our Chancellery wag its
respected head and frown and whisper in corners and take little notes
on its newly laundered cuffs?
"I know the European and Asiatic shores with their forts--Kilid Bahr,
Chimilik, Kum Kale, Dardanos. I know what those Germans have been
about with their barbed wire and mobile mortar batteries. What do we
want of their plans, then----"
"Nothing, Prince Erlik!" said Rue, laughing. "It suffices that you be
appointed adviser in general to his majesty the Czar."
Sengoun laughed with all his might.
"And an excellent thing that would be, Miss Carew. What we need in
Russia," he added with a bow to the Princess, "are, first of all, more
Kazatchkee, then myself to execute any commands with which my
incomparable Princess might deign to honour me."
"Then I command you to go and smoke cigarettes in the music-room and
play some of your Cossack songs on the piano for Mr. Neeland until
Miss Carew and I rejoin you," said the Princess, rising.
At the door there was a moment of ceremony; then Sengoun, passing his
arm through Neeland's with boyish confidence that his quickly given
friendship was welcome, sauntered off to the music-room where
presently he was playing the piano and singing some of the entrancing
songs of his own people in a voice that, cultivated, might have made a
fortune for him:
  "We are but horsemen,
  And God is great.
  We hunt on hill and fen
  The fierce Kerait,
  Naiman and Eighur,
  Tartar and Khiounnou,
  Leopard and Tiger
  Flee at our view-halloo;
  We are but horsemen
  Cleansing the hill and fen
  Where wild men hide--
  Wild beasts abide,
  Mongol and Baïaghod,
  Turkoman, Taïdjigod,
  Each in his den.
  The skies are blue,
  The plains are wide,
  Over the fens the horsemen ride!"
Still echoing the wild air, and playing with both hands in spite of
the lighted cigarette between his fingers, he glanced over his
shoulder at Neeland:
"A very old, old song," he explained, "made in the days of the great
invasion when all the world was fighting anybody who would fight back.
I made it into English. It's quite nice, I think."
His naïve pleasure in his own translation amused Neeland immensely,
and he said that he considered it a fine piece of verse.
"Yes," said Sengoun, "but you ought to hear a love song I made out of
odd fragments I picked up here and there. I call it 'Samarcand'; or
rather 'Samarcand Mahfouzeh,' which means, 'Samarcand the Well
Guarded':
  "'Outside my guarded door
  Whose voice repeats my name?'
  'The voice thou hast heard before
  Under the white moon's flame!
  And thy name is my song; and my song is ever the same!'
  "'How many warriors, dead,
  Have sung the song you sing?
  Some by an arrow were sped;
  Some by a dagger's sting.'
  'Like a bird in the night is my song--a bird on the wing!'
  "'Ahmed and Yucouf bled!
  A dead king blocks my door!'
  'If thy halls and walls be red,
  Shall Samarcand ask more?
  Or my song shall cleanse thy house or my heart's blood
      foul thy floor!'
  "'Now hast thou conquered me!
  Humbly thy captive, I.
  My soul escapes to thee;
  My body here must lie;
  Ride!--with thy song, and my soul in thy arms; and let me die.'"
Sengoun, still playing, flung over his shoulder:
"A Tartar song from the Turcoman. I borrowed it and put new clothes on
it. Nice, isn't it?"
"Enchanting!" replied Neeland, laughing in spite of himself.
Rue Carew, with her snowy shoulders and red-gold hair, came drifting
in, consigning them to their seats with a gesture, and giving them to
understand that she had come to hear the singing.
So Sengoun continued his sketchy, haphazard recital, waving his
cigarette now and then for emphasis, and conversing frequently over
his shoulder while Rue Carew leaned on the piano and gravely watched
his nimble fingers alternately punish and caress the keyboard.
After a little while the Princess Mistchenka came in saying that she
had letters to write. They conversed, however, for nearly an hour
before she rose, and Captain Sengoun gracefully accepted his congé.
"I'll walk with you, if you like," suggested Neeland.
"With pleasure, my dear fellow! The night is beautiful, and I am just
beginning to wake up."
"Ask Marotte to give you a key, then," suggested the Princess, going.
At the foot of the stairs, however, she paused to exchange a few words
with Captain Sengoun in a low voice; and Neeland, returning with his
latchkey, went over to where Rue stood by the lamplit table absently
looking over an evening paper.
As he came up beside her, the girl lifted her beautiful, golden-grey
eyes.
"Are you going out?"
"Yes, I thought I'd walk a bit with Captain Sengoun."
"It's rather a long distance to the Russian Embassy. Besides----" She
hesitated, and he waited. She glanced absently over the paper for a
moment, then, not raising her eyes: "I'm--I--the theft of that box
today--perhaps my nerves have suffered a little--but do you think it
quite prudent for you to go out alone at night?"
"Why, I am going out with Captain Sengoun!" he said, surprised at her
troubled face.
"But you will have to return alone."
He laughed, but they both had flushed a little.
Had it been any other woman in the world, he had not hesitated gaily
to challenge the shy and charming solicitude expressed in his
behalf--make of it his capital, his argument to force that pretty duel
to which one day, all youth is destined.
He found himself now without a word to say, nor daring to entertain
any assumption concerning the words she had uttered.
Dumb, awkward, afraid, he became conscious that something in this
young girl had silenced within him any inclination to gay effrontery,
any talent for casual gallantry. Her lifted eyes, with their clear,
half shy regard, had killed all fluency of tongue in him--slain
utterly that light good-humour with which he had encountered women
heretofore.
He said:
"I hadn't thought myself in any danger whatever. Is there any reason
for me to expect further trouble?"
Rue raised her troubled eyes:
"Has it occurred to you that they might think you capable of
redrawing parts of the stolen plans from memory?"
"It had never occurred to me," he admitted, surprised. "But I believe
I could remember a little about one or two of the more general maps."
"The Princess means to ask you, tomorrow, to draw for her what you can
remember. And that made me think about you now--whether the others
might not suspect you capable of remembering enough to do them
harm.... And so--do you think it prudent to go out tonight?"
"Yes," he replied, quite sincerely, "it is all right. You see I know
Paris very well."
She did not look convinced, but Sengoun came up and she bade them both
good night and went away with the Princess Mistchenka.
As, arm in arm, the two young men sauntered around the corner of the
rue Soleil d'Or, two men who had been sitting on a marble bench beside
the sun-dial fountain rose and strolled after them.
CHAPTER XXX
JARDIN RUSSE
At midnight the two young men had not yet parted. For, as Sengoun
explained, the hour for parting was already past, and it was too late
to consider it now. And Neeland thought so, too, what with the
laughter and the music, and the soft night breezes to counsel folly,
and the city's haunting brilliancy stretching away in bewitching
perspectives still unexplored.
From every fairy lamp the lustrous capital signalled to youth her
invitation, her challenge, and her menace. Like some jewelled
