It is probable that after this war is over the women 
of the belligerent nations will be given the franchise 
by the weary men that are left, if they choose to insist 
upon it. They have shown the same bravery, endur- 
 
ance, self-sacrifice, resource, and grim determination 
as the men. In every war, it may be argued, women 
have displayed the same spirit and the same qualities, 
proving that they needed but the touchstone of opportunity to reveal the splendor of their endowment, but 
treated by man, as soon as peace was restored, as the 
same old inferior annex. 
This is true enough, but the point of difference is 
that never, prior to the Great War, was such an enormous body of women awake after the lethargic sub- 
mission of centuries, and clamoring for their rights. 
Never before have millions of women been supporting 
themselves; never before had they even contemplated 
organization and the direct political attack. Of course 
the women of Europe, exalted and worked half to 
death, have, with the exception of a few irrepressibles, 
put all idea of self-aggrandizement aside for the moment ; but this idea had grown too big and too dominant to be dismissed for good and all, with last year's 
fashions and the memory of delicate plats prepared by 
chefs now serving valiantly within the lines. The big 
idea, the master desire, the obsession, if you like, is 
merely taking an enforced rest, and there is persistent speculation as to what the thinking and the energetic women of Europe will do when this war is over, and how far men will help or hinder them. 
I have written upon this question in its bearings 
upon the women of France more fully in another 
chapter ; but it may be stated here that such important 
feminists as Madame Verone, the eminent avocat, and 
 
Mile. Valentine Thompson, the youngest but one of the 
ablest of the leaders, while doing everything to help 
and nothing to embarrass their Government, never 
permit the question to recede wholly to the back- 
ground. Mile. Thompson argues that the men in 
authority should not be permitted for a moment to 
forget, not the services of women in this terrible 
chapter of France's destiny, for that is a matter of 
course, as ever, but the marked capabilities women 
have shown when suddenly thrust into positions of 
authority. In certain invaded towns the wives of imprisoned or executed Mayors have taken their place 
almost automatically and served with a capacity unrelated to sex. In some of these towns women have 
managed the destinies of the people since the first 
month of the war, understanding them as no man has 
ever done, and working harder than most men are ever 
willing to work. Thousands have, under the spur, 
developed unsuspected capacities, energies, endurance, 
above all genuine executive abilities. That these 
women should be swept back into private life by the 
selfishness of men when the killing business is over, 
is, to Mile. Thompson's mind, unthinkable. In her 
newspaper, La Vie Feminine, she gives weekly instances of the resourcefulness and devotion of French 
womanhood, and although the women of her country 
have never taken as kindly to the idea of demanding 
the franchise as those of certain other nations, still 
it is more than possible that she will make many 
converts before the war is over. 
 
These are not to be "suffrage" chapters. There is 
no doubt in my mind that the women of all nations 
will have the franchise eventually, if only because it 
is ridiculous that they should be permitted to work 
like men (often supporting husbands, fathers, brothers) and not be permitted all the privileges of men. 
Man, who grows more enlightened every year — often 
sorely against his will — must appreciate this anomaly 
in due course, and by degrees will surrender the 
1 franchise as freely to women as he has to negroes and 
imbeciles. When women have received the vote for 
which they have fought and bled, they will use it with 
just about the same proportion of conscientiousness 
and enthusiasm as busy men do. One line in the credo 
might have been written of human nature a.d. 1914- 
1917: "As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever 
shall be." 
But while suffrage and feminism are related, they 
are far from identical. Suffrage is but a milestone 
in feminism, which may be described as the more or 
less concerted sweep of women from the backwaters 
into the broad central stream of life. Having for untold centuries given men to the world they now want 
the world from men. There is no question in the 
progressive minds of both sexes that, outside of the 
ever-recurrent war zones, they should hereafter divide 
the great privileges of life and civilization in equal 
shares with men. 
Several times before in the history of the world 
comparatively large numbers of women have made 
 
themselves felt, claiming certain equal rights with the 
governing sex. But their ambitions were generally 
confined to founding religious orders, obtaining admission to the universities, or to playing the intellectual game in the social preserves. In the wonderful 
thirteenth century women rivaled men in learning and 
accomplishments, in vigor of mind and decision of 
character. But this is the first time that millions of 
them have been out in the world "on their own," invading almost every field of work, for centuries sacrosanct to man. There is even a boiler-maker in the 
United States who worked her way up in poor-boy 
fashion and now attends conventions of boiler-makers 
on equal terms. In tens of thousands of cases women 
have made good, in the arts, professions, trades, businesses, clerical positions, and even in agriculture and 
cattle raising. They are brilliant aviators, yachtsmen, 
automobile drivers, showing failure of nerve more 
rarely than men, although, as they are not engaged in 
these pursuits in equal numbers perhaps that is not 
a fair statement. Suffice it to say that as far as they 
have gone they have asked for no quarter. It is quite 
true that in certain of the arts, notably music, they 
have never equaled men, and it has been held against 
them that all the great chefs are men. Here it is 
quite justifiable to take refuge in the venerable axiom, 
"Rome was not made in a day." It is not what they 
have failed to accomplish with their grinding disabilities but the amazing number of things in which they 
have shown themselves the equal if not the superior 
 
of men. Whether their success is to be permanent, 
or whether they have done wisely in invading man's 
domain so generally, are questions to be attacked later 
when considering the biological differences between 
men and women. The most interesting problem relating to women that confronts us at present is the effect 
of the European War on the whole status of woman. 
If the war ends before this nation is engulfed 
we shall at least keep our men, and the males of 
this country are so far in excess of the females that 
it is odd so many American women should be driven 
to self-support. In Great Britain the women have 
long outnumbered the men; it was estimated before 
the war that there were some three hundred thousand 
spinsters for whom no husbands were available. After 
the war there will be at best something like a proportion of one whole man to three women (confining 
these unwelcome prophecies to people of marriageable 
age) ; and the other afflicted countries, with the possible exception of Russia, will show a similar dislocation of the normal balance. The acute question will 
be repopulation — with a view to another trial of military supremacy a generation hence! — and all sorts of 
expedients are being suggested, from polygamy to 
artificial fertilization. It may be that the whole future 
of woman as well as of civilization after this war is 
over depends upon whether she concludes to serve 
the State or herself. 
While in France in the summer of 1916, I heard 
childless women say : "Would that I had six sons to 
 
give to France!" I heard unmarried women say: 
"Thank heaven I never married !" I heard bitterness 
expressed by bereft mothers, terror and despair by 
others when the curtain had rung down and they could 
relax the proud and smiling front they presented to 
the world. Not one would have had her son shirk 
his duty, nor asked for compromise with the enemy, 
but all prayed for the war to end. It is true that these 
men at the front are heroes in the eyes of their women, 
worshiped by the majority when they come home 
briefly as permissionnaires, and it is also true that 
France is an old military nation and that the brain- 
cells of its women are full of ancestral memories of 
war. But never before have women done as much 
thinking for themselves as they are doing to-day, as 
they had done for some fifteen or twenty years before 
the war. That war has now lasted almost three years. 
During this long and terrible period there has been 
scarcely a woman in France, as in Britain, Russia, 
Italy, Germany, who has not done her share behind 
the lines, working, at her self-appointed tasks or at 
those imposed by the Government, for months on end 
without a day of rest. They have had contacts that 
never would have approached them otherwise, they 
have been obliged to think for themselves, for thousands of helpless poor, for the men at" the Front. The 
Frenchwomen particularly have forced men to deal 
with them as human beings and respect them as such, 
dissipating in some measure those mists of sex through 
which the Frenchman loves to stalk in search of the 
 
elusive and highly-sophisticated quarry. As long as 
a woman was sexually attractive she could never hope 
to meet man on an equal footing, no matter how entrancing he might find her mental qualities. She must 
play hide-and-seek, exercise finesse, seduction, keep 
the flag of sex flying ever on the ramparts. It is 
doubtful if Frenchmen will change 'in this respect, 
but it is more than doubtful if women do not. 
There is hardly any doubt that if this war lasts 
long enough women for the first time in the history 
of civilization will have it in their power to seize one 
at least of the world's reins. But will they do it — I 
am now speaking of women in mass, not of the ad- 
vanced thinkers, or of women of the world who have 
so recently ascertained that there is a special joy in 
being free of the tyranny of sex, a tyranny that 
emanated no less from within than without. 
It is to be imagined that all the men who are 
fighting in this most trying of all wars are heroes in 
the eyes of European women — as well they may be — 
and that those who survive are likely to be regarded 
with a passionate admiration not unmixed with awe. 
The traditional weakness of women where men are 
concerned (which after all is but a cunning device 
of Nature) may swamp their great opportunity. They 
may fight over the surviving males like dogs over a 
bone, marry with sensations of profound gratitude (or 
patriotic fervor) the armless, the legless, the blind, 
the terrible face mutiles, and drop forever out of the 
ranks of Woman as differentiated from the ranks of 
 
mere women. What has hampered the cause of 
Woman in Great Britain and Europe so far is the 
quite remarkable valuation put upon the male by the 
female. This is partly temperamental, partly female 
preponderance, but it is even more deeply rooted in 
those vanished centuries during which man proclaimed 
and maintained his superiority. Circumstances helped 
him for thousands of years, and he has been taken 
by the physically weaker and child-bearing sex at his 
own estimate. It is difficult for American women to 
appreciate this almost servile attitude of even British 
women to mere man. One of the finest things about 
the militant woman, one by which she scored most 
heavily, was her flinging off of this tradition and displaying a shining armor of indifference toward man 
as man. This startled the men almost as much as 
the window smashing, and made other women, living 
out their little lives under the frowns and smiles of 
the dominant male, think and ponder, wonder if their 
small rewards amounted to half as much as the untasted pleasures of power and independence. 
It is always a sign of weakness to give one side of a 
picture and blithely ignore the other. Therefore, let 
me hasten to add that it is a well-known fact that 
Mrs. Pankhurst had borne and reared six children 
before she took up the moribund cause of suffrage; 
and that after a season's careful investigation in London at the height of the militant movement I concluded that never in the world had so many unattractive 
females been banded together in any one cause. Even 
 
the young girls I heard speaking on street corners, 
mounted on boxes, looked gray, dingy, sexless. Of 
course there were many handsome, even lovely, women, 
— like Mrs. Cavendish-Bentinck and Lady Hall, for 
instance — interested in "the movement," contributing 
funds, and giving it a certain moral support; but 
when it came to the window smashers, the jail seekers, the hunger-strikers, the real martyrs of that extraordinary minor chapter of Englands history, there 
was only one good-looking woman in the entire army 
— Mrs. Pethick-Lawrence — and militant extravagances 
soon became too much for her. There were intelligent women galore, women of the aristocracy born 
with a certain style, and showing their breeding even 
on the soap-box, but sexually attractive women never, 
and even the youngest seemed to have been born without the bloom of youth. The significance of this, 
however, works both ways. If men did not want 
them, at least there was something both noble and 
pitiful in their willingness to sacrifice those dreams 
and hopes which are the common heritage of the 
lovely and the plain, the old and the young, the Circe 
and the Amazon, to the ultimate freedom of those 
millions of their sisters lulled or helpless in the enchanted net of sex. 
It is doubtful if even the militants can revert to 
their former singleness of purpose; after many months, 
possibly years, of devotion to duty, serving State and 
man, the effacement of self, appreciation of the naked 
fact that the integrity of their country matters more 
 
than anything else on earth, they may be quite unable to rebound to their old fanatical attitude toward 
suffrage as the one important issue of the Twentieth 
Century. Even the very considerable number of those 
women that have reached an appearance which would 
eliminate them from the contest over such men as 
are left may be so chastened by the hideous sufferings 
they have witnessed or heard of daily, so moved by 
the astounding endurance and grim valor of man 
(who nearest approaches to godhood in time of war) 
that they will have lost the disposition to tear from 
him the few compensations the new era of peace can 
offer. If that is the case, if women at the end of 
the war are soft, completely rehabilitated in that 
femininity, or f emaleness, which was their original endowment from Nature, the whole great movement 
will subside, and the work must begin over again by 
unborn women and their accumulated grievances some 
fifty years hence. 
Nothing is more sure than that Nature will take 
advantage of the lull to make a desperate attempt to 
recover her lost ground. Progressive women, and 
before the war their ranks were recruited daily, were 
one of the most momentous results of the forces of 
the higher civilization, an evolution that in Nature's 
eye represented a lamentable divergence from type. 
Here is woman, with all her physical disabilities, become man's rival in all of the arts, save music, and in 
nearly all of the productive walks of life, as well as in 
a large percentage of the professional and executive; 
 
intellectually the equal if not the superior of the average man — who in these days, poor devil, is born a 
specialist — and making a bold bid for political equality. 
It has been a magnificent accomplishment, and it 
has marked one of the most brilliant and picturesque 
milestones in human progress. It seems incredible 
that woman, in spite of the tremendous pressure that 
Nature will put upon her, may revert weakly to type. 
The most powerful of all the forces working for Na- 
ture and against feminism will be the quite brutal and 
obscene naturalness of war, and the gross familiarity 
of civilization with it for so long a period. There 
is reversion to type with a vengeance ! The ablest of 
the male inheritors of the accumulated wisdom and 
experiences and civilizing influences of the ages were 
in power prior to August 1914, and not one of them 
nor all combined had the foresight to circumvent, or 
the diplomatic ingenuity to keep in leash the panting 
Hun. They are settling their scores, a.d. 1914-1917, 
by brute fighting. There has been some brain work 
during this war so far, but a long sight more brute 
work. As it was in the beginning, etc. 
And the women, giving every waking hour to 
arrleliorating the lot of the defenders of their hearth 
and their honor, or nursing the wounded in hospital, 
have been stark up against the physical side : whether 
making bombs in factories, bandages or uniforms, 
washing gaping wounds, preparing shattered bodies for 
burial, or listening to the horrid tales of men and 
women home on leave. 
 
The European woman, in spite of her exalted pitch, 
is living a more or less mechanical life at present. 
Even where she has revealed unsuspected creative 
ability, as soon as her particular task is mapped she 
subsides into routine. As a rule she is quite automatically and naturally performing those services and 
duties for which Nature so elaborately equipped her, 
ministering to man almost exclusively, even when temporarily filling his place in the factory and the tram- 
car. Dienen! Dienen! is the motto of one and all of 
these Kundrys, whether they realize it or not, and it 
is on the cards that they may never again wish to 
somersault back to that mental attitude where they 
would dominate not serve. 
On the other hand civilization may for once prove 
stronger than Nature. Thinking women — and there 
are a few hundred thousands of them — may emerge 
from this hideous reversion of Europe to barbarism 
with an utter contempt for man. They may despise 
the men of affairs for muddling Europe into the most 
terrible war in history, in the very midst of the greatest civilization of which there is any record. They 
may experience a secret but profound revulsion from 
the men wallowing in blood and filth for months on 
end, living only to kill. The fact that the poor men 
can't help it does not alter the case. The women 
can't help it either. Women have grown very fastidious. The sensual women and the quite unimaginative 
 
women will not be affected, but how about the others ? 
And only men of the finest grain survive a long period 
of war with the artificial habits of civilization strong 
upon them. 
The end of this war may mark a conclusive revul- 
sion of the present generation of European women 
from men that may last until they have passed the 
productive age. Instead of softening, disintegrating 
back to type, they may be insensibly hardening inside 
a mould that will eventually cast them forth a more 
definite third sex than any that threatened before the 
war. Woman, blind victim of the race as she has 
been for centuries, seldom in these days loves with- 
out an illusion of the senses or of the imagination. 
She has ceased, in the wider avenues of life, lined as 
they are with the opulent wares of twentieth century 
civilization, to be merely the burden-bearing and reproductive sex. Life has taught her the inestimable 
value of illusions, and the more practical she becomes, 
the more she cherishes this divine gift. It is possible 
that man has forfeited his power to cast a glamour 
over all but the meanest types of women. If that 
should be the case women will ask : Why settle down 
and keep house for the tiresome creatures, study their 
whims, and meekly subside into the second place, or 
be eternally on the alert for equal rights? As for 
children ? Let the state suffer for its mistakes. Why 
bring more children into the world to be blown to 
pieces on the field of battle, or a burden to their women 
throughout interminable years? No! For a generation at least the world shall be ours, and then it may 
limp along with a depleted population or go to the 
dogs. 
Few, no doubt, will reason it out as elaborately as 
this or be so consciously ruthless, but a large enough 
number are likely enough to bring the light of their 
logic to bear upon the opportunity, and a still larger 
number to feel an obscure sense of revolt against man 
for his failure to uphold civilization against the Prussian anachronism, combined with a more definite de- 
sire for personal liberty. And both of these divisions 
of their sex are likely to alter the course of history — 
far more radically than has ever happened before at 
the close of any fighting period. Even the much depended upon maternal instinct may subside, partly 
under the horrors of field hospitals where so many 
mother's sons are ghastly wrecks, partly under a heavy 
landslide of disgust that the sex that has ruled the 
world should apparently be so helpless against so ob- 
scene a fate. 
They will reflect that if women are weak (com- 
paratively) physically, there is all the more hope they 
may develop into giants mentally; one of man's handicaps being that his more highly vitalized body with its 
coercive demands, is ever waging war with a consistent and complete development of the mind. And in 
these days, when the science of the body is so thoroughly understood, any woman, unless afflicted with 
an organic disease, is able to keep her brain constantly 
supplied with red unpoisoned blood, and may wax in 
 
mental powers (there being no natural physical deteriorations in the brain as in the body) so long as 
life lasts. 
Certainly these women will say: We could have 
done no worse than these chess players of Europe and 
we might have done better. Assuredly if we grasp 
and hold the reins of the world there will never be 
another war. We are not, in the first place, as greedy 
as men ; we will divide the world up in strict accordance with race, and let every nation have its own place 
in the sun. Commercial greed has no place in our 
make-up, and with the hideous examples of history 
it will never obtain entrance. 
How often has it been the cynical pleasure of mere 
ministers of state to use kings as pawns? Well, we 
despise the game. Also, we shall have no kings, and 
republics are loth to make war. Our instincts are 
humanitarian. We should like to see all the world as 
happy as that lovely countryside of Northeastern 
France before August 1914. We at least recognize 
that the human mind is as yet imperfectly developed; 
and if, instead of setting the world back periodically, 
and drenching mankind in misery, we would have all 
men and women as happy as human nature will permit, 
we should devote our abilities, uninterrupted by war, 
to solving the problem of poverty (the acutest evidence of man's failure), and to fostering the talents 
of millions of men and women that to-day constitute 
a part of the wastage of Earth. Of course, being 
mortal, we shall make mistakes, give way, no doubt, 
 
to racial jealousies, and personal ambitions; but our 
eyes have been opened wide by this war and it is impossible that we should make the terrible mistakes we 
inevitably would have made had we obtained power 
before we had seen and read its hideous revelations — 
day after day, month after month, year after year! 
It is true that men have made these resolutions many 
times, but men have too much of the sort of blood 
that goes to the head, and their lust for money is even 
greater than their lust for power. 
Now, this may sound fantastic but it is indisputably 
probable. Much has been said of the patriotic exalta- 
tion of young women during war and just after its 
close, which leads them to marry almost any one in 
order to give a son to the state, or even to dispense 
with the legal formality. But although I heard a great 
deal of that sort of talk during the first months of 
the war I don't hear so much of it now. Nor did I 
hear anything like as much of it in France as I expected. To quote one woman of great intelligence 
with whom I talked many times, and who is one of 
the Government's chosen aids; she said one day, "It 
was a terrible distress to me that I had only one child, 
and I consulted every specialist in France. Now I am 
thankful that I did have but one son to come home to 
me with a gangrene wound, and then, after months of 
battling for his life, to insist upon going back to the 
Front and exposing it every day. I used to feel sad, 
too, that Valentine Thompson" (who is not only beautiful but an Amazon in physique) "did not marry and 
,  
be happy like other girls, instead of becoming a public 
character and working at first one scheme or another 
for the amelioration of the lot of woman. Now, I am 
thankful that she never married. Her father is too 
old to go to war and she has neither husband nor 
son to agonize over. Far better she live the life of 
usefulness she does than deliberately take upon herself 
the common burdens of women." No Frenchwoman 
could be more patriotic than the one who made this 
speech to me, and if she had had many sons she would 
have girded them all for war, but she had suffered 
too much herself and she saw too much suffering 
among her friends daily, not to hate the accursed institution of war, and wish that as many women could 
be spared its brutal impositions as possible. 
Nobody has ever accused me of being a Pacifist. 
Personally, I think that every self-respecting nation on 
the globe should have risen in 1914 and assisted the 
Allies to blast Prussia off the face of the Earth, but 
after this war is over if the best brains in these nations 
do not at once get to work and police the world against 
future wars, it will be a matter for regret that they 
were not all on the German ship when she foundered. 
It is to be remembered that woman has, in her subconscious brain-cells, ancestral memories of the Ma- 
triarchate. It is interesting to quote in this connection 
what Patrick Geddes and G. Arthur Thompson have 
to say on the mooted question of the Mother-Age : 
"Prehistoric history is hazardous, but there is a 
good case to be made out for a Mother-Age. This 
has been reconstructed from fossils in the folk lore of 
agriculture and housewifery, in old customs, ceremonies, festivals, games; in myths and fairy tales and 
age-worn words. 
"Professor Karl Pierson finds in the study of witch- 
craft some of the fossils that point back to the 
Matriarchate. In the older traditions 'the witch re- 
sumes her old position as the wise-woman, the medicine woman, the leader of the people, the priestess.' 
'We have accordingly to look upon the witch as essen- 
tially the degraded form of the old priestess, cunning 
in the knowledge of herbs and medicine, jealous of the 
rights and of the goddess she serves, and preserving 
in spells and incantations such wisdom as early civilization possessed.' 
"The witch's weather wisdom is congruent with the 
fact that women were the earliest agriculturists; her 
knowledge of herbs with that of the ancient medicine 
women; her diablerie with that of the ancient group 
relations of the sexes so different from what we call 
marriage to-day ; her nocturnal dances with the ancient 
choruses of marriage-ripe maidens. The authority and 
magic circle kept by the broom are those of the hearth 
and floor in her primeval roundhut; and her distaff 
and pitchfork, her caldron, her cat and dog, are all in 
keeping with the role of woman in the Mother- Age. 
 
"But there is another way, and that certainly not 
less reliable, by which we can arrive at some understanding of the Mother-Age, and how it naturally 
came about, namely, by a study of our 'contemporary 
ancestors,' of people who linger on the matriarchal 
level. Such people, as well as others on the still 
lower nomad stage of civilization, are to be found at 
this day in Australia. 
"While the purely nomad stage lasted, little progress 
could be niade, because the possessions of a group 
were limited by the carrying powers of its members. 
But in a favorite forest spot a long halt was possible, 
the mothers were able to drop their babies and give a 
larger part of their attention to food-getting. As before, the forest products — roots and fruits — were 
gathered in, but more time and ingenuity were expended in making them palatable and in storing them 
for future use. The plants in the neighborhood, which 
were useful for food or for their healing properties, 
were tended and kept free of weeds, and by and by 
seeds of them were sown in cleared ground within easy 
reach of the camp. Animals gathered about the rich 
food area, and were at first tolerated — certain negro 
tribes to-day keep hens about their huts, though they 
eat neither them nor their eggs — and later encouraged 
as a stable source of food-supply. The group was 
anchored to one spot by its increasing possessions; 
and thus home-making, gardening, medicine, the domestication of animals and even agriculture, were 
fairly begun. Not only were all these activities in the 
 
hands of women, but to them, too, were necessarily 
left the care and training of the young. 
"The men meanwhile went away on warlike expeditions against other groups, and on long hunting and 
fishing excursions, from which they returned with 
their spoils from time to time, to be welcomed by the 
women with dancing and feasting. Hunting and war 
were their only occupations, and the time between 
expeditions was spent in resting and in interminable 
palavers and dances, which we may perhaps look upon 
as the beginnings of parliaments and music halls. 
"Whether this picture be accurate in detail or not 
there is at any rate a considerable body of evidence 
pointing to the 'Matriarchate' as a period during 
which women began medicine, the domestication of the 
smaller animals, the cultivation of vegetables, flax and 
corn, the use of the distaff, the spindle, the broom, 
the fire-rake and the pitchfork. 
"In the Mother-Age the inheritance of property 
passed through the mother; the woman gave the children her own name; husband and father were in the 
background — often far from individualized; the 
brother and uncle were much more important; the 
woman was the depository of custom, lore, and religious tradition; she was, at least, the nominal head 
of the family, and she had a large influence in tribal 
affairs." 
For some years past certain progressive women 
have shown signs of a reversion to the matriarchal 
state — or shall we say a disposition to revive it? In 
 
spite of human progress we travel more or less in 
circles, a truth of which the present war and its reversions is the most uncompromising example. 
In the married state, for instance, these women have 
retained their own name, not even being addressed 
as Mrs., that after all is a polite variation of the 
Spanish "de," which does not by any means indicate 
noble birth alone, women after marriage proudly announcing themselves as legally possessed. For in- 
stance a girl whose name has been Elena Lopez writes 
herself after marriage Elena Lopez de Morena, the 
"de" in this case standing for "property of." It will 
be some time before the women of Spain travel far on 
the Northern road toward pride in sex deliverance, 
but with us, and in Britain, the custom is growing 
prevalent. 
Then there is the hyphen marriage, more common 
still, in which the woman retains her own name, bul 
condescends to annex the man's. Once in a way a 
man will prefix his wife's name to his own, and there 
is one on record who prefixed his own to his wife's. 
But any woman may have her opinion of him. 
So far as I have been able to ascertain these marriages are quite as successful as the average; and if 
the woman has a career on hand — and she generally 
has — she pursues it unhampered. The grandmother 
or aunt takes charge of the children, if there are any, 
while she is at her duties without the home, and so 
far, the husband has been permitted the compensation 
of endowing the children with his name. 
 
The reversion to the prehistoric matriarchate can 
hardly be complete in these days, but there are many 
significant straws that indicate the rising of a new 
wind blown by ancient instincts. To look upon them 
as shockingly advanced or abnormal is an evidence of 
conservatism that does not reach quite far enough into 
the past. 
A still more significant sign of the times (in the 
sense of linking past with present) is the ever-increasing number of women doctors and their success. 
Men for the most part have ceased to sneer or even to 
be more than humanly jealous, often speaking in terms 
of the wannest admiration not only of their skill but 
of their conscientiousness and power of endurance. 
When I went to live in Munich (1903) a woman surgeon was just beginning to practice. This, to Germany, was an innovation with a vengeance, and the 
German male is the least tolerant of female encroachment within his historic preserves. The men practitioners threw every possible obstacle in her way, and 
with no particular finesse. But nothing could daunt 
her, and two or three years later she was riding round 
in her car — a striking red one — while the major number of her rivals were still dependent upon the ambling 
cab-horse, directed off and on by a fat driver who 
was normally asleep. Jealousy, however, for the most 
part had merged into admiration; for your average 
male, of whatever race, is not only philosophical but 
bows to success; she was both recognized and called 
in for consultation. Hang on! Hang on! should be 
 
the motto of all women determined to make their 
mark in what is still a man's world. Life never has 
denied her prizes to courage and persistence backed 
by ability. 
A curious instance of man's inevitable recognition 
of the places of responsibility women more and more 
are taking is in the new reading of the Income Tax 
papers for 191 7. Heretofore only married men were 
exempted taxation on the first $4000 but from now on, 
apparently, women who are also "heads of families" 
are likewise favored. As thousands of women are 
supporting their aged parents, their brothers while 
studying, their children and even their husbands, who 
for one reason or other are unequal to the family 
strain, this exemption should have been made coinciden tally with the imposing of the tax. But men are 
slow to see and slower still to act where women are 
concerned. 
As we all know, women have invaded practically 
every art, trade, and industry, but — aside from the 
arts, for occasionally Nature is so impartial in her 
bestowal of genius that art is accepted as sexless — in 
no walk of life has woman been so uniformly successful as in medicine. This is highly significant in view 
of the fact that they invented and practiced it in the 
dawn of history, while man was too rudimentary to 
do anything but fight and fill the larder. It would 
seem that the biological differences between the male 
and the female which are so often the cause of 
woman's failure in many spheres preempted through- 
 
out long centuries by man, is in her case counteracted 
not only by her ancestral inheritance, but by the high 
moral element without which no doctor or surgeon 
can long stand the exactions and strain of his terrible 
profession. No woman goes blithely into surgery or 
medicine merely to have a career or to make a living, 
although ten thousand girls to her one will essay to 
write, or paint, or clerk, or cultivate her bit of voice, 
with barely a thought expended upon her fitness or the 
obligations involved. 
But the woman who deliberately enters the profession of healing has, almost invariably, a certain nobility of mind, a lack of personal selfishness, and a 
power of devotion to the race quite unknown to the 
average woman, even the woman of genius when seeking a career. 
During the Great War there have been few women 
doctors at the Front, but hundreds of women nurses, 
and they have been as intrepid and useful as their rivals 
in sex. They alone, by their previous experience of 
human suffering, bad enough at best, were in a measure prepared for the horrors of war and the impotence 
of men laid low. But that will not restore any lost 
illusions, for they took masculine courage for granted 
with their mothers' milk, and they cannot fail to be 
imbued to the marrow with a bitter sense of waste 
and futility, of the monstrous sacrifice of the best blood 
of their generation. 
II 
THE TRIUMPH OF MIDDLE-AGE 
CERTAIN doctors of England have gone on 
record as predicting a lamentable physical future 
for the army of women who are at present doing the 
heavy work of men, particularly in the munition factories. They say that the day-long tasks which involve 
incessant bending and standing and lifting of heavy 
weights will breed a terrible reaction when the war 
ends and these women are abruptly flung back into 
domestic life. There is almost no man's place in the 
industrial world that English women are not satisfactorily filling, with either muscle or brains, and the 
doctors apprehend a new problem in many thousand 
neurotics or otherwise broken-down women at the 
close of the war. Although this painful result of 
women's heroism would leave just that many women 
less to compete for the remaining men sound of wind 
and limb, still, if true, it raises the acute question: 
Are women the equal of men in all things? Their 
deliverance from the old marital fetish, and successful 
invasion of so many walks of life, have made such a 
noise in the world since woman took the bit between 
her teeth, more or less en masse, that the feministic, 
paean of triumph has almost smothered an occasional 
protest from those concerned with biology; but as a 
matter-of-fact statistics regarding the staying power 
of women in what for all the historic centuries have 
been regarded as avocations heaven-designed and with 
strict reference to the mental and physical equipment 
of man, are too contradictory to be of any value. 
Therefore, the result of this prolonged strain on 
a healthy woman of a Northern race evidently predestined to be as public as their present accomplishment, will be awaited with the keenest interest, and no 
doubt will have an immense effect upon the future 
status of woman. She has her supreme opportunity, 
and if her nerves are equal to her nerve, her- body to 
her spirit, if the same women are working at the severe 
tasks at the end of the war as during the first months 
of their exaltation, and instead of being wrecks are 
as hardened as the miserable city boys that have become wiry in the trenches — then, beyond all question 
woman will have come to her own and it will be for 
her, not for man, to say whether or not she shall 
subside and attend to the needs of the next generation. 
Before I went to France in May 1916 I was inclined 
to believe that only a small percentage of women 
would stand the test; but since then I have seen hundreds of women at work in the munition factories of 
France. As I have told in another chapter, they had 
then been at work for some sixteen months-, and, of 
poor physique in the beginning, were now strong 
healthy animals with no sign of breakdown. They 
 
were more satisfactory in every way than men, for 
they went home and slept all night, drank only the 
light wines of their country, smoked less, if at all, 
and had a more natural disposition toward cleanliness. 
Their bare muscular arms looked quite capable of laying a man prostrate if he came home and ordered 
them about, and their character and pride had developed in proportion.
It is not to be imagined, however, that the younger, 
at least, of these women will cling to those greasy jobs 
when the world is normal again and its tempered 
prodigals are spending money on the elegancies of life 
once more. And if they slump back into the sedentary 
life when men are ready to take up their old burdens, 
making artificial flowers, standing all day in the fetid 
atmosphere of crowded and noisy shops, stitching everlastingly at lingerie, there, it seems to me, lies the 
danger of breakdown. The life they lead now, arduous as it is, not only has developed their muscles, their 
lungs, the power to digest their food, but they are useful members of society on the grand scale, and to 
fall from any height is not conducive to the well-being 
of body or spirit. No doubt, when the sudden release 
comes, they will return to the lighter tasks with a 
sense of immense relief; but will it last? Will it be 
more than a momentary reaction to the habit of their 
own years and of the centuries behind, or will they 
gradually become aware (after they have rested and 
* Dr. Rosalie Morton, the leading woman doctor and surgeon of New 
York, who also studied this subject at first hand, agrees with me that 
the war tasks have improved the health of the European women. 
 
romped and enjoyed the old life in the old fashion 
when off duty) that with the inferior task they have 
become the inferior sex again. The wife, to be sure, 
will feel something more than her husband's equal, 
and the Frenchwoman never has felt herself the inferior in the matrimonial partnership. But how about 
the wage earners? Those that made ten to fifteen 
francs a day in the Usines de Guerre, and will now 
be making four or five? How about the girls who 
cannot marry because their families are no longer in 
a position to pay the dot, without which no French 
girl dreams of marrying? These girls not only have 
been extraordinarily (for Frenchwomen of their class) 
affluent during the long period of the war, but they 
order men about, and they are further upheld with 
the thought that they are helping their beloved France 
to conquer the enemy. They live on another plane, 
and life is apt to seem very mean and commonplace 
under the old conditions. 
, That these women are not masculinized is proved 
by the fact that many have borne children during the 
second year of the war, their tasks being made lighter 
until they are restored to full strength again. They 
invariably return as soon as possible, however. It 
may be, of course, that the young men and women of 
the lower bourgeoisie will forswear the dot, for it 
would be but one more old custom giving way to 
necessity. In that case the sincere, hardworking and 
not very humorous women of this class no doubt would 
find full compensation in the home, and promptly do 
 
her duty by the State. But I doubt if any other alternative will console any but the poorest intelligence or 
the naturally indolent — and perhaps Frenchwomen, 
unless good old-fashioned butterflies, have less laziness in their make-up than any other women under 
the sun. 
The natural volatility of the race must also be taken 
into consideration. Stoical in their substratum, bubbling on the surface, it may be that these women who 
took up the burdens of men so bravely will shrug their 
shoulders and revert to pure femininity. Those past 
the age of allurement may fight like termagants for 
their lucrative jobs, their utter independence; but coquetry and the joy in life, or, to put it more plainly, 
the powerful passions of the French race, may do 
more to effect an automatic and permanent return to 
the old status than any authoritative act on the part 
of man. 
The women of England are (or were) far more 
neurotic than the women of France, as they have 
fewer natural outlets. And the struggle' for legal enfranchisement, involving, as it did, a sensationalism 
that affected even the non-combatants, did much to 
enhance this tendency, and it is interesting to speculate whether this war will make or finish them. Once 
more, personally, I believe it will make them, but as 
I was not able to go to London after my investigations in France were concluded and observe for myself 
 
I refuse to indulge in speculations. Time will show, 
and before very long. 
No doubt, however, when the greater question of 
winning the war is settled, the question of sex equality 
will rage with a new violence, perhaps in some new 
form, among such bodies of women as are not so 
subject to the thrall of sex as to desert their new 
colors. It would seem that the lot of woman is ever 
to be on the defensive. Nature handicapped her at 
the start, giving man a tremendous advantage in his 
minimum relationship to reproduction, and circumstances (mainly perpetual warfare) postponed the 
development of her mental powers for centuries. Certainly nothing in the whole history of mankind is so 
startling as the abrupt awakening of woman and her 
demand for a position in the world equal to that of 
the dominant male. 
I use the word abrupt, because in spite of the scattered instances of female prosiliency throughout history, and the long struggle beginning in the last century for the vote, or the individual determination to 
strive for some more distinguished fashion of coping 
with poverty than school-teaching or boarding-house 
keeping, the concerted awakening of the sex was 
almost as abrupt as the European War. Like many 
fires it smouldered long, and then burst into a menacing conflagration. But I do not for a moment apprehend that the conflagration will extinguish the complete glory of the male any more than it will cause a 
revulsion of nature in the born mother. 
 
But may there not be a shuffling of the cards ? Take 
the question of servant-girls for instance. Where 
there are two or more servants in a family their lot is 
far better than that of the factory girl. But it is 
quite a different matter with the maid-of -all- work, the 
household drudge, who is increasingly hard to find, 
partly because she, quite naturally, prefers the department store, or the factory, with its definite hours and 
better social status, partly because there is nothing in 
the "home" to offset her terrible loneliness but interminable hours of work. In England, where many 
people live in lodgings, fashionable and otherwise, and 
have all meals served in their rooms, it is a painful 
sight to see a slavey toiling up two or three flights 
of stairs — and four times a day. In the United States, 
the girls who come over from Scandinavia or Germany with roseate hopes soon lose their fresh color 
and look heavy and sullen if they find their level in 
the household where economy reigns. 
Now, why has no one ever thought of men as 
"maids" of all work? On ocean liners it is the stewards that take care of the state-rooms, and they keep 
them like wax, and make the best bed known to 
civilization. The stewardesses in heavy weather attend to the prostrate of their sex, but otherwise do 
nothing but bring the morning tea, hook up, and receive tips. Men wait in the diningroom (as they 
do in all first-class hotels), and look out for the passengers on deck. Not the most militant suffragette 
but would be intensely annoyed to have stewardesses 
 
scurrying about on a heaving deck with the morning 
broth and rugs, or dancing attendance in a nauseous 
sea. 
The truth of the matter is that there is a vast 
number of men of all races who are fit to be nothing 
but servants, and are so misplaced in other positions 
where habit or vanity has put them, that they fail 
far more constantly than women. All "men" are not 
real men by any means. They are not fitted to play 
a man's part in life, and many of the things they 
attempt are far better done by strong determined 
women, who have had the necessary advantages, and 
the character to ignore the handicap of sex. 
I can conceive of a household where a well-trained 
man cooks, does the "wash," waits on the table, 
sweeps, and if the mistress has a young child, or 
is indolent and given to the rocking-chair and a novel- 
a-day, makes the beds without a wrinkle. He may 
lack ambition and initiative, the necessary amount of 
brains to carry him to success in any of the old masculine jobs, but he inherits the thoroughness of the 
ages that have trained him, and, if sober, rides the 
heavy waves of his job like a cork. I will venture 
to say that a man thus employed would finish his work 
before eight p.m. and spend an hour or two before 
bed-time with his girl or at his club. 
Many a Jap in California does the amount of work 
I have described, and absorbs knowledge in and out 
of books during his hours of leisure. Sometimes they 
do more than I have indicated as possible for the white 
 
man. Energetic boys, who want to return to Japan 
as soon as possible, or, mayhap, buy a farm, make a 
hundred dollars a month by getting up at five in the 
morning to wash a certain number of stoops and sweep 
sidewalks, cook a breakfast and wash up the dinner 
dishes in one servantless household, the lunch dishes 
in another, clean up generally in another, cook the 
dinner, wait on the table, clean up in still another. 
As white men are stronger they could do even more, 
and support a wife in an intensive little flat where her 
work would be both light and spiritually remunerative. Domestic service would solve the terrible problem of life for thousands of men, and it would 
coincidentally release thousands of girls from the factory, the counter, and the exhausting misery of a 
'-'home" that never can be their own. At night he 
could feel like a householder and that he lived to some 
purpose. If he is inclined to complain that such a life 
is not "manly," let him reflect that as he is not first-
rate anyhow, and never can compete with the fully 
equipped, he had best be philosophical and get what 
comfort out of life he can. Certainly the increased 
economic value of thousands of men, at present slav- 
ing as underpaid clerks and living in hall bedrooms, 
would thin the ranks of the most ancient of all industries, if, according to our ardent reformers, they are 
recruited from the ranks of the lonely servant-girl, 
the tired shop-girl, and the despairing factory hand. 
For it is largely a question of muscle and biology. 
I have stated elsewhere that I believe in equal suffrage, if only because women are the mothers of men 
and therefore their equals. But I think there are several times more reasons why American women at least 
should not overwork their bodies and brains and wear 
themselves out trying to be men, than why it is quite 
right and fitting they should walk up to the polls and 
cast a vote for men who more or less control their 
destinies. 
To digress a moment : When it comes to the arts, 
that is quite another matter. If a woman finds herself 
with a talent (I refrain from such a big word as 
genius, as only posterity should presume to apply that 
term to any one's differentiation from his fellows), by 
all means let her work like a man, take a man's chances, 
make every necessary sacrifice to develop this blessed 
