

 

the front way he motioned to the side door where they 
would be in the grape-vine shadow and no one could see 
them from the road. Ellen was a most enchanting and 
pathetic mixture to him now, still a child, and yet, he was 
always reminding himself, grown up. She sat sedately 
down on the step, and Larry brought an old kitchen chair 
and took that, facing her. 

" Ellen," said he, " you mustn't for a minute think he 
hasn't gone on a glorious adventure, or that he won't 
come back in his motor car with the band playing Hail 
Columby." 

She looked at him in a surprised inquiry. 

" Who? " she asked. 

"Who?" repeated Larry blankly. "Well, who do 
you think? Hugh, of course." 

" Oh, yes," said she, but indifferently. " I s'pose he 
will." 

And then Larry saw Hugh was already beyond her hori- 
zon. Perhaps she had never truly seen him within it, 
and he was sorry for Hugh. But Ellen bent her head on 
her knees and began to cry. 

"For God's sake," said Larry, "what is it?" In his 
distress, he got up and knocked over the chair on the 
shelving ground and stood before her and besought her. 
" Ellen, what is it? Don't do that. Don't do it, I tell 
you." 

Ellen choked it down. She was not fond of crying. It 
came like a sudden tempest when s'.e was unprepared. 
She wiped her eyes and looked up at him miserably. 

" I s'pose you've heard about it," she began. 

Larry shook his head. 

" My mother," said Ellen, in what sounded like a rage 
of haughtiness, "and Peleg Simpson." It might have 
been an announcement of some magnificence, as if she 



 

hung a wonderful arras to screen her own shamed heart. 

Larry had scanty talk with the neighbors, but at once 
he knew. 

" The deuce ! " he said. " Well, Ellen, there's nothing 
the matter with him. Feleg's a good fellow." 

She looked at him in an amazed indignation, and he 
saw, if he palliated the horror of it, he should lose her. 
Never would she open her defended little soul to him 
again. He picked up the chair and sat down in it, giving 
himself time to find his ground with her. She was with- 
drawing, he saw, inch by inch. In a moment she would 
rise and say she must be going, and never again would she 
bring her griefs to him. 

"Ellen," he said contritely and persuasively, "people 
can't all feel alike. Don't you see? Your mother isn't 
made like you. She may want something — pleasant." 
Here he stumbled. He could imagine that, with little 
Puritan Ellen to keep her within bounds, Ardelia might 
long for the free air of irresponsible mirth such as Peleg 
breathed offensively. 

Ellen looked at him with a rebuking coldness. 

" I don't care to have you talk about my mother," she 
said. 

Larry loved her. He adored her, in a way he owned 
only to his fiddle, and he couldn't lose her. 

" Ellen," said he, " you're a perfect little devil. There's 
no pleasing you. Here am I standing up for your mother, 
and you tell me she's no business of mine. Yes, she is, 
too, because you're my business. You know perfectly 
well I should die dead if it wasn't for you and Hugh." 
Yet he knew there was no parity between the two affec- 
tions. Actually he was in love with the maid in Ellen, 
in an old-fashioned silly way. 

" I'm sorry," said she meekly. 



 

"There!" said Larry, "I'm glad youVe got some 
heart. Now I'm going to talk to you like a Dutch uncle. 
I am a Dutch uncle, really. There's nothing else I'm 
likely to be to you. Ellen, don't you go to strapping 
your mother up to impossible ideals — " 

" Impossible? " flamed Ellen. 

"Yes, they are. They're impossible for her. She's 
just a human being and she wants a good time. Now you 
let her have it. And if it means — " 

" Don't ! don't " she cried. " Don't say it." 

" O damn ! " said Larry, and dug his heel into the turf. 
Why wasn't the mother of this soft, quivering creature a 
woman of dignity like Mary Neale? He, too, at the mo- 
ment, hated Ardelia and Peleg with an equal rage. " You 
see, what I'm damning," said Larry, " is the impossibility 
of telling you how I should hate the whole business — 
just as you do — and I know you're having a perfect 
hell of a time. But it's no use, Nell, no use." Some- 
times when she seemed to him a grown woman and he jeal- 
ously wanted to take her to himself in a mood of their 
common understanding, he called her Nell. Nobody else 
did it and, for the moment, he felt she was pathetically 
his. " You've got to take life as it is, not as you want it 
to be, and do the best you can with it. You'll marry 
yourself some day." 

" No, I sha'n't," said Ellen coldly. 

" Yes, you will, because you're such a darling creature 
a man'll make himself into anything you want him to be — 
at any rate, as long as he can keep it up — just to please 
you. And then, when you understand life better, you'll 
wish you'd been more tolerant, more kind — yes, just 
plain kind, to the poor souls that don't know anything 
about the great passions you were bom to, and you'll 
wish you'd let them take their own little bite at life the 



 

way they wanted to. You're proud, Nell, that's the mat- 
ter, proud as a peacock." 

" I've nothing to be proud of," she said, with quivering 
lips. 

" Yes, you have. You're a beauty. And you're a dear. 
But you're a nasty little pig, too, and you're ashamed of 
having anybody belong to you that looks and acts like 
Peleg Simpson." The frown came again to her forehead, 
and he ended hastily : " I should, too, Nell. I should 
be ashamed of poor old Feleg, but I should know I ought 
to be kicked for it." 

" Well," said Ellen, with a bewitching smile, " kick me 
if you want to." 

She was an enchantress to him, in an undisguised way, 
because she was entirely at ease with him. He was an old 
gentleman to her, he ruefully suspected. 

" God forbid," returned Larry fervently. 

" But," she said, « I can't be different." 

" No," said Larry, " that's it. That's a part of your 
wonderfulness. But can't you take things a little 
more — " he hesitated. Her grave eyes were on him, and 
he dared not invoke the reproach of their sad ques- 
tioning. "You know there are lots of things to laugh 
at," he concluded. "Why don't you think of them, 
too?" 

"I don't have a chance," said Ellen qjmply. "The 
other things won't let me." 

It was true, he thought, poor little burdened soul. 
Grissie would, he suggested, to rouse some spirit in her. 
But Ellen looked him in the face with dignity, inquiring: 

"Do you want me to be like Grissie?" Then she 
smiled a little. She knew what he thought of Grissie. 

" Anyway," said he cheerfully, " don't you be so opin- 
ionated about marrying." 



 

He meant daringly the marriage of Ardelia, but Ellen 
thought he was going back to his constant rebuke of her 
own aloofness. She looked at him with her softest glance : 
for he was the nicest person, she knew, now living in this 
world. 

" I wouldn't," she said, " if everybody was like you. 
I'd marry you, in a minute.'' 

She laughed her kind little laugh and gave a convincing 
nod at him, and Larry laughed with her, loudly, to carry 
it off. Now she got up and went away out of the yard 
to her path across the woods, and he sat where she had 
left him, facing his house and staring at the vine until it 
seemed as if the world waved and trembled. His tempta- 
tion had come upon him. She had summoned it. The 
bitterness of her speech lay in the innocent implication 
that they both knew such a thing was impossible — as she 
might say to her father that he was the man she would 
have married. She could look at him in her adorable in- 
nocence and give him the key to her heart. It was a key. 
For if, in her maiden distance from the desire of love, she 
could accept him so conclusively, what might it be if he 
put all his persuasive power into charming her? He had 
humored her like a child. What if he wooed her like a 
woman? She might even be deluded by a proffer of 
affection, unchanged from earliest remembrance, and find 
no hazard in it. That was a subtile snare to set for her : 
his sober devotion, his loneliness, her need of him. It was 
monstrous, he knew, a man of forty-six and a girl hardly 
out of childhood. But he might have heavenly hours, 
and then drop off and leave her in her prime, with life 
before her. And because it seemed impossible to bear the 
thought of it, of youth gone and before him none of the 
recompenses of age, he put the little flag out, went in and 
locked his doors. And when Ardelia came to cook his 



 



dinner, she turned back at the gate and went home to 
tell Ellen Larry Greene'd " got another o' them times " 
and !Ellen mustn't go near the house. Ellen stood for a 
moment, thinking miserably. She wondered if somehow 
she could have prevented it. She was just beginning, the 
mother spirit forming in her, to question whether Larry 
need ever have had to hang the flag out. She felt as if 
somebody might have hindered it. 

Ardelia was glad to be relieved of her cares that day. 
She had a plan in mind. 

" I guess I'll take a walk to Beckenham," she said, as 
if the temptation had not been signaling all night. 
"There's a few things I'm bewitched to buy, I s'pose 
you don't want to go, too? " 

" No," said Ellen. " I don't want to go." 

So Ardelia changed her dress and set off with a pleased 
importance. Ellen hardly wondered why she was going. 
It must, she thought, have something to do with Feleg; 
but she was tired of speculating. And at once, as if he 
had been watching for a clear coast, Ben appeared, bring- 
ing her books from the Academy, an ostensible reason, 
though the real one was the money in his pocket, pro- 
voking in its mystery. When she came to the door, he 
looked at her with quickened vision and, for the first time, 
it seemed to him he saw her as she was. There was rea- 
son in Hugh's madness. Ellen was a beauty. Within a 
year even, she had bloomed out into a peachy loveliness 
Ben caught at last in its perfection. But he was a master 
of discernment. He would never have to learn, through 
the adversity of rebuff, to fit himself to Ellen's ride code. 
Grissie was another sort. He fathomed her by instinct, 
and played her way without restraint. 

"Say, Ellen," he asked, "d'you see Hugh before he 
went away? " 



 

" Yes," said Ellen. 

" Let me come in a minute? I want to ask you some- 
thing." 

Ellen nodded, with a meager welcome he found piquing
and led the way into the sitting-room. Ben was afraid
he was not to sit down if he waited for her to bid him, and 
audaciously took a chair. Then Ellen sat, too, and he 
asked her, fixing his blue eyes on her— " Ben had a re- 
markable clarity of gaze — 

" What'd he say to you? " 

" I don't know as I can tell," she said. 

The memory of it was all a mingling of her own anger 
Over Peleg and Hugh's confused comforting. But she 
did remember she had kissed him, and the color flushed 
her face. Ben saw it and his interest quickened. 

"I mean," said he, "did he say anything about me? 
Send me any message or anything? " 

"No," said Ellen. "Not a word. Didn't you see 
him?" 

" Only a minute. But there's lots of things he didn't 
tell me. I don't know where he got his money to go with. 
I don't believe mother knows. D'he tell you?" 

Ellen looked at him with the soft clearness that showed 
she had nothing to hide. 

" No," said she. " He didn't tell me. Not a word." 
Then she laughed a little. " We did speak about money. 
But I was the one. I told him I wished I had some. 
That was all." 

Ben felt an instant lightness of heart and, at the same 
moment, a serious disapproval of chucking an unheard-of 
sum of money at a girl who was not even expecting it. 

"What do you want money for? " he asked. 

But Ellen had no idea of taking him into her discon- 
tented mind. 



 

" OV »ftMl »h«» " I guess I could find a use for it.'' 

" I bet you could," said Ben. " I bet we both could 
Ellen!'' 

"What?'» 

He hesitated. Then he dared it. 

" You engaged to Hugh? " 

That enraged her, and he loved her for it. 

" I'm not engaged to anybody/' she said, " and I don't 
mean to be." 

" Right you are," said Ben. " Nor I either. I never 
can see why a fellow and girl can't be good friends with- 
out everybody's thinking there's something in it. You 
going on with your shorthand? " 

" I should," said Ellen, " only I haven't had anybody 
to read to me. Mother's been busy." 

" I thought you and Grissie dictated to each 
other." 

" We did." She hesitated. " Only now she's going in 
town every day and studying with the class." 

" Why don't you? " 

" Oh, I don't know." 

But she did know. She couldn't pay the slight fee, 
and she knew how Grissie paid it. She had gone to 
Hay and Luce, the drygoods firm, and talked Mr. Luce, 
who had an eye for persuasive charm, into lending her the 
money. And when she was proficient, Luce would find her 
a place. 

" That's just the trouble with me," said Ben. " I can't 
join a class. First place, father wouldn't let me. He's 
going to put me into Lawyer Pettis's office the first of 
September. But I want to keep on with my shorthand. 
Why can't you and I meet two or three times a week and 
read to each other? and if Grissie finds out any new 
wrinkle in class shell tell us." 



 

Ellen looked at him, her brows lowering and the color 
again flushing her cheeks. 

" I won't have anything to do with Grissie," she said. 
" And I don't want to have anything to do with you. I 
saw you both, that night." 

" What night? " asked Ben. She had pricked him, but 
he was on guard. 

" The Academy dance. She ran — and you — " 

" Yes," said Ben gravely. He was not looking at her. 
What a girl she was, he was thinking, what a prim little 
darling prude. "I know what you mean. I'm sorry, 
Ellen. I'm as sorry as I can be. Can't you forget it? " 

" It isn't my business," said Ellen. " But if that's the 
way you feel, you and Grissie — O Ben!" Her face 
changed delightfully into a happy relief and confidence. 
" Why, Ben, I know. You're engaged to Grissie." 

" No, by thunder! I'm not," cried Ben. " And don't 
you think it. The only trouble with me is, I haven't been 
half grown up. But now I see how I seem to other peo- 
ple — now I see how I looked to you — O Ellen, don't 
lay that up against me." He rose and stood before her, 
contrite, pleading and very handsome. "You and I 
could be great pals if we didn't have tp think of silly 
things like that. With some girls you have to. They 
make you. " Ellen, you take your book and come up to 
Hemlock Ridge about five. Father's going to Beckenham. 
And I'll come, too. And we can have an hour on our 
shorthand." 

" Why, yes," said she. It looked suddenly pleasant to 
her. He was only a boy playmate and she could readily 
see how Grissie had shamed him into the game of folly. 
Woman-like, she blamed the woman. " But you come 
over here. We can sit on the back porch. Mother won't 
disturb us." 



 

Ben made a droll face. 

" Can't," said he. " Father'd find it out and then — 
good-by." 

" All right," said Ellen. " PU come." 

It was a recognized fact that the Neale boys hoodwinked 
their father. No one thought the worse of them. They 
had to. Then he went away at once, lest she should re- 
pent, and Ellen sat down to her study rather more light- 
hearted. Ben was a charming playmate. And later 
Ardelia came back from her dusty walk to town. She was 
hot and disheveled, her hat on one side with the haste of 
her going, but she was, Ellen jealously saw, excited and 
happy. She carried a large bundle and threw it on the 
table beside Ellen's books. After she had unpinned her 
hat she began to cut the string with a nervous haste, and 
talked meanwhile, laughing a little as she went on, as if 
she wanted to get her explanation over. Ellen could 
hardly bear the laugh. It was a new one, she thought, 
something like Peleg's. Mother had caught it of him. 
But perhaps Ardelia had had few calls to laughter in these 
last years. 

" I bought a whole cut o' cloth," said she. " 'Twas a 
real bargain. An' some hamburg. I thought we're both 
pretty well out o' clo'es, an' we might's weR. se' down 
this summer an' make us up some." 

Ellen looked at her in her most terrifying fashion, and 
Ardelia wilted under it. "Why don't you tell the 
truth? " Ellen was crying savagely within her own mind. 
"You know and I know what you're making up things 
for." But she only said, in a quietness of scorn that was 
harder for poor Ardelia to bear than the anger of re- 
proach: 

" I don't want any clothes or any hamburg. You can 
have it all." 



It was something before five when Ellen took book and 
pencil and told her mother she was going into the woods. 
Ardelia scarcely heard, she was so busy cutting out on the 
kitchen table, and wondering whether the cloth ought to 
have been shrunk and if she could have the patience to 
crochet an edge. Hamburg was elegant, but it was not 
quite so stylish, if she could judge from the ready-made 
garments she had seen that day. 

"Well, don't go too far," said she absently, without 
looking up. " Hadn't you better wait till after supper? " 

Ellen did not answer; she slipped away over the stone 
wall and down the lane. There, instead of tpming to- 
ward Larry's, she took the path to the right leading to 
a shaded slope overlooking a ravine where the water 
dashed in spring and yet mysteriously never seemed 
to disquiet the roots of cardinal flower. They were 
everywhere below among the rocks, and when she had 
climbed the ridge, the old devious way, she let herself 
down into the ravine, swinging by lithe young trees, and 
ran exploring over the stones in the water-course. The 
flowers were early, for some reason known to their private 
economy, the brighter for that pretty artifice of sur- 
prise. She broke their tall spikes, six of them, leaving 
a larger multitude to light the gloom, and climbed up 
again to the seat between the trees. There Ben found 
her, the scarlet flowers in her lap, her head against a 
tree bole, dreaming and looking beautiful. There was 
peace for her in the moment ; she had dropped the thought 

of Peleg and something pleasant was about to happen. 

 



 

The troubles that had darkened her face so long that she 
was in danger of carrying the mask of them in line and 
contour, were washed away. When she heard him, she 
came awake and laughed up at him and took her pencil. 
There were dozens of things he could have said to Grissie 
to begin the tryst auspiciously ; but he could not say them 
to dlen. He was treating her as gently as the butterfly 
settled on his arm. He opened his book at once, a popu- 
lar novel, and told her to be ready. 

" What a funny book to take ! " said Ellen. She chose 
serious works because she had a pathetic impression that 
life is short and you must make use of every minute. 
Ellen was a little prig, no doubt, but she was a darling 
one. 

Ben kept up the pace, and was far cleverer than she. 
He was alvays first at the game of memorizing. They 
dictated, turn and turn about, and after an hour of it 
he threw down the book and passed a hand over his eyes. 
" Oh, but I'm tired," said he. " Father's had me at 
it this afternoon." 

She was all compunction. 
" We'll go straight home," said she. 
" Wait a minute or two," said Ben languidly. " It's 
cool here. It rests my head." 

" I didn't know you ever got tired. I thought you 
could learn anything without looking." 

" Oh, I don't know," said Ben. " I guess I've had 
about all I can stand, with haying and things. I'm 
fed up with farming. I bet you are with housework." 

" There isn't much," said Ellen absently. " Just 
mother and me." 

Then they sat awhile in the cool of the late afternoon, 
and a thrush began melodiously. The tears sprang to 
her eyes and she caught her breath. 



 

" What is it? " asked Ben tenderly. 

But she hardly noted the tenderness. And she could 
not tell him what it was. Really it was because the 
thrush's song was so beautiful, and because it made her 
think of all her little sadnesses. She could have told 
Larry, but Larry would not have had to ask. Instantly 
she thought of him, and wondered whether she mightn't 
go round his way and see if the flag were out. It made 
her grave, yet only moderately. The flag was only a flag. 
She had never found Larry in his fallen estate, and the 
" habit " was only a habit. Now she remembered Ben, 
after the minute's thought away from him, and that he 
was asking again : " What is it, Ellen? " She shook her 
head, as if she cast off dark imaginings, and smiled at him. 
Then she told him something quite intimate, out of the 
depths of her defended mind. Perhaps her talk with 
Larry had planted the seed and this playmate g€une 
was nourishing it. 

" Ben," said she, " I get awfully sick of being sol- 
emn." 

" So do I," said Ben, at random. 

She laughed, in a little outburst. 

"You never were solemn in your life." 

" You don't know how I feel inside," said Ben sagely. 

But she shook her head. 

" You don't feel as I do. I get so mad with people. 
And things. But I hate it. I'd like to laugh all day 
long." 

"We'll laugh when we come up here, anyway," said 
Ben, She was too elusive for him, too fine and honest in | 
her sweet desires. But he could at least follow her, a 
step behind, and catch up at intervals. " Let's pretend 
we've come up to play, same's we used to when we were 
little. Do you remember the time you and I both started 



 

down the bank after the cardinals and our trees swung 
 together and we bumped and fell into the drink? " 
 " Hugh ran down and picked me up," said she slowly. 
 " Ben, where is Hugh? " 

 " There we go, being sober," said he. " Oh, Hugh'll be 
 round again. Fact is, I don't know where he is." 
 " Don't you think Larry 'd know? I meant to ask him, 
but we got talking." 

She rose and Ben picked up his book and followed her* 
He did not mean to coax her. She was too shy. 

" School's dismissed," said he. " Here, wait a minute. 
Your shoe's untied." 

He knelt and began tying it and Ellen stood flushing 
with the discomfort of her shyness. None of the boys 
had ever done little deferential things for her, she was 
so haughty. Proudy-cat, they called her. Yet she 
liked having them done. It was a moving moment to see 
a tall boy kneeling. 

" There," said Ben, " that's a double bow-knot. Race 
you down the hill." 

He did, and beat her, and she stopped breathless at 
the turning of the ways. She was laughing and her 
cheeks were pink. 

" I'm going round to Larry's," said she. 

He did not offer to go, and she knew, without his saying 
it, that the studious hours at the hemlock were to be a 
secret. Thomas Neale was to be out of it. 

" To-morrow night? " said Ben. 

"Yes, I can. Same time. O Ben!" she called him 
after he had turned away. There she stood against the 
green of the trees where the dusk seemed to be already 
sifting, with such a pretty smile for him. " Ben," said 
she, for Ellen was all impulse and affection when you had 
been kind to her, " I didn't know you were so nice." 




Since they grew up she had seen him with Grissie and 
scorned him too much to look at him. That he knew. 
There was an obvious answer : " I knew you were," but 
he didn't make it. The butterfly must not be scared. 
So he gave a hoot of boyish laughter and disappeared 
among the trees. She heard him crashing down through 
the undergrowth, like big game, and turned on her way to 
Larry's. The flag was out. She stood watching it, and 
then drew a step or two nearer. What if it meant 
Larry needed somebody more than ever, somebody to put 
cold water on his head or make him a cup of tea? Ellen 
knew nothing about the ways Larry's enemy took of over- 
throwing him. She stole on toward the house, fascinated 
by the adventure and her own lawlessness in pursuing it. 
The place, in its twilight quiet, seemed enchanted into 
a strange secrecy. She crept on up the path and stopped 
under the window. There she could hear something. It 
was heavy, regular breathing, and she concluded he was 
sound asleep, and that must be good for him. So she 
turned away, relieved, and went home. But it was well 
she had not seen Larry in his sleep. 

That night, after Thomas Neale's supper, kept for 
him because he had been late in getting home, he called 
from the kitchen to Ben who was peacefully stretched on 
the sitting-room sofa. Mary, mixing her bread, also 
called softly because Ben did not come at once; but her 
husband admonished her, yet without a look at her: 

" I'll tend to that myself." 

Ben came drowsily and leaned against the casing. 

"You can be ready to-morrer mornin'," said Neale, 
without looking up. " I've seen Pettis. He'll take you." 

" Good Lord, father ! " said Ben, between a laugh and 
a rueful desire to beg off. "I can't begin to study law 



 

as you'd teach a fellow to swim. You're throwing me in 
neck and crop. You said September." 

" You can ride to-morrer mornin'," said Neale. " I'm 
goin' to blacksmith's. After that, you'll walk. Come, 
you better be gettin' off to bed." 

Ben stood ill the doorway until his father went out, and 
made a horrible face at his back. Mary had no spirit to 
rebuke him. 

" I'll lay out your shirt," she said. " You better wear 
that nice blue stripe." 

Ben did go up to bed. He liked sleep, craved it like 
a cat, and when there was nothing else to do could throw 
himself down anywhere and relax every muscle in forget- 
ful bliss. Mary went about her work, heavy-hearted and 
saying little inarticulate prayers for Hugh. Now that 
he was gone, she knew she never could have sent him if she 
had known what desolation he would leave. Especially 
at dusk, when the house was still, she wondered if she 
should ever see him again. 

Next morning Ben, radiant in his gay certainty of 
meeting adequately whatever the day might bring him, 
came down after breakfast was on the table. Neale gave 
a quick upward look at him and went on eating. Hugh, 
Mary thought, would have been reproved for not being 
in time to help with the morning chores. Sometimes she 
believed her husband was glad of reasons for going 
lightly over Ben's deficiencies. A little later Trueman 
brought the team round, and father and son started for 
town. Mary stood at the door and watched them, vaguely 
disappointed because Ben seemed not to realize the im- 
portance of the day. Here he was going into a lawyer's 
office, a tremendous step, Mary and her husband thought, 
and he went as if to market. When he passed the little 



 

house Ben, out of the tail of his eye, saw Ellen raking i 
the yard. But he did not bow. He knew how father 
despised the Brocks, as a matter of principle even. EHIen 
would understand. In a minute more they saw Grissie 
before them, walking to her lesson. She was a gay little 
figure in bright blue gingham and a white hat. Her 
waist was slender, and she moved with a dash and bravado 
that made Ben think of a bird flashing along from tree 
to tree. Neale grunted as they overtook her. Ben un- 
derstood the grunt. It meant his father disapproved of 
her, her bright colors and her darting ways; but it was 
the custom to take foot passengers in, and Neale grimly 
suffered it. 

"Ride?''he called. 

Grissie looked up at them, all one gleam of radiant re- 
sponsiveness. She was ready to throw in, whatever the 
challenge, all the assets of her white teeth, her blue eyes 
and shining hair. 

" Yes, indeed," said she. " I'd be ever so much obliged. 
Don't move, Ben. I'll hop in this side." 

Instantly, with one of her buoyant motions, she had 
done it and was asking prettily : 

« Shall I sit in the middle? " 

And again Thomas grunted, and she settled herself 
between them like thistle-down come to rest, and, by an 
accident Ben accepted as one of the adroit chances she 
governed, dropped her bare elbow in the palm of his hand. • 
Ben didn't particularly care about having it there; but 
he was amused, thinking how mad it would make father, 
driving morosely on the other side where there "was only 
an arm demurely prim. When Neale had drawn up at 
the post-office and Grissie had said: "Thank you very 
much," with a propriety quite devoid of the dash and 
sparkle she rightly judged were not for frowning fathers. 



 

they walked away together in a stiff propriety calculated 
to inform Thomas of their dearth of interest in each 
other. Then she did say, with a little giggle, though not 
looking at Ben and thereby vitiating the pious rectitude of 
her back; 

" Where you going? " 

He told her and she expressed her joy. He would be 
due in town every morning, and they could walk together. 
Ben also acclaimed this lightening of his daily burden ; and 
that afternoon she waited for him and they dallied home 
along the country road. Just before they got to the 
little house, he left her. 

" I guess I'd better drop off here," he said, and Grissie, 
because it was ill-advised to let Neale see them in ungov- 
emed intimacy, approved his foresight. But Ben broke 
into a run across the fields and got to the Hemlock Ridge 
not many minutes after Ellen, and there again they had 
an hour's work and some laughing talk to sweeten it. 



The year was 1914, the year of the Great War, and 
though this is not a story of the war, it has to be col- 
ored by it as all life will henceforth be Colored for- 
evermore. Bromley was a town of old descent, it has 
been made plain. It gave a noble number of its sons to 
the Civil War and even had its little hospital in the 
church, where convalescing soldiers were tended by village 
matrons and girls and marriages were made : for the girls 
were all a flame of patriotism and there wasnH a copper- 
head within the township. Since the day when the rem- 
nant of these soldiering sons came marching home, it had 
been climbing up to a fair degree of prosperity. It had 
no poorhouse, and none of its people were, as of old, on 
the town. It had not been forced to take sides in violent 
issues. Nobody knew exactly where it stood on national 
questions, for it published no paper of its own and de- 
pended, to a man, upon the County Star which was Re- 
publican but discreetly remembered, often enough to keep 
the circulation undiminished, how many of its subscribers 
were Democrats. Larry Greene was the only man who 
took the greater dailies, and he was regarded by the Rural 
Delivery as having a wearisome amount of mail and, if 
all was known, spending too much money on it. 

In the latter part of June Larry had been mildly inter- 
ested in learning, by way of his New York papers, that 
the Archduke Ferdinand of Austria and his duchess had 
been assassinated. He was not deeply stirred over any 

royal circus, nor did he want all obsolete shows to be 

 



 

downed, in the interests of social democracy. He thought 
lungs and queens were spectacular, and that the man in the 
street wasn't yet iStted to rule. So he dismissed the assas- 
sination from his mind. Larry had long got over his 
wrestle with his enemy and had hauled in the flag. Indeed 
it was out only a couple of days this time before he 
emerged, rather pale and, with a trembling hand and un- 
happy stomach, took up his ordinary tasks. Ellen, he 
thought, looked at him wistfully when she came to put the 
house in order, and he wondered, with a pang, if she had 
begun to see his temporary retirements as he did, sickened, 
as he was, of himself and Bromley. He thought those 
hours of miserable coma had helped him forget his dream 
of her and that he need never think of it again. But if 
she looked sweetly at him out of eyes uncomprehending, 
sympathetic and wholly affectionate, he found he had not 
abandoned the dream. And he felt rebellious against his 
age — and at the same time young. When his morning 
paper told him Germany had declared war against Russia, 
he shook his head over the intemperate issue, knowing it 
would run into the ever-perturbed Balkans. The English 
apprehension over Germany, that individual and baseless 
hysteria, would, he believed, crop up afresh. It was like 
the old scare, he thought, of Boney. And he bent over 
Smilie, who was coaxing him for love, and got a stitch in 
his back that kept him from straightening up again. Then 
he took, cursing, to the sofa and Smilie stared at him with 
reproachful eyes because he overran her part of it too, and 
lay there reading newspapers while Ardelia ministered to 
him at intervals. He forbade Ellen to come into the 
house. At least, he thought, she shouldn't see him in his 
disheveled state. The Great War has always been so 
connected, in Larry's mind, with a misery in his back that 
his angers and discomforts, his memory of sleepless nights. 



 

always shot through with pain, meant it was something 
Germany had done to him. And always, remembering 
the tension of that tragic beginning, the short space of 
time stretched out interminably. When he woke in the 
morning he could get his steadier outlook and think of the 
gigantic upheaval in its proportions ; but at night it was 
inevitably in his back as well. And one morning he woke 
to the certainty he never afterward lost, that something 
tremendous had begun and you couldn't stop it. And 
then came his fear that England was not going in, and 
