curve her cheek in profile; and presently she said without turning:
"Why did you speak of Stephanie Quest as Mrs. Grismer?  We don’t, you
know."
"Why not?  Isn’t she?"
The girl looked at him over her shoulder; she was startlingly pretty,
fresh and smooth-skinned as a child.
"Who are you?" she asked, with that same little hint of friendly
curiosity in her brown eyes;—"I’m Helen Davis, Stephanie’s chum.  You
seem to know a good deal about her."
"I’m James Cleland," he said quietly, "—her brother."
At that the girl’s brown eyes flew wide open:
"Good Heavens!" she said; "did Steve expect you? She never said a word
to me!  I thought you were a fixture in Europe!"
He sat biting the end of his cigarette, not looking at her:
"She didn’t expect me," he said, flinging the half-burned cigarette into
the silver slop-dish of the tea service. "I didn’t notify her that I was
coming."
Helen Davis dropped one elbow on the modelling table, rested her rounded
chin in her palm, and bent her eyes on Cleland.  Smoke from the
cigarette between her fingers mounted in a straight, thin band to the
ceiling.
"So you are Steve’s Jim," she mused aloud.  "I recognize you now, from
your photographs, only you’re older and thinner—and you wear a
moustache....  You’ve been away a long while, haven’t you?"
"Too long," he said, casting a sombre look at her.
"Oh, do you feel that way?  How odd it will seem to you to see Steve
again.  She’s such a darling!  Quite wonderful, Mr. Cleland.  The
artists’ colony in New York raves over her."
"Does it?" he said drily.
"Everybody does.  She’s so amusing, so clever, so full of talent and
animation—like a beautiful and mischievous thoroughbred on tip-toes with
vitality and the sheer joy of living.  She never is in low spirits or
depressed.  That’s what fascinates everybody—her gaiety and energy and
high spirits.  I knew her in college and she wasn’t quite that way then.
Perhaps because she hated college.  But she could be a perfect little
devil if she wanted to.  She can be that still."
Cleland nodded almost absently; his preoccupied gaze travelled over the
disordered studio and concentrated scowlingly on the yellow cat.  He
kept twisting the head of his walking stick between his hands and
staring at the animal in silence while Helen Davis watched him.
Presently, and without any excuse, she walked slowly away and vanished
into some inner room.  When she returned, she had discarded her working
smock, and her smooth hands were slightly rosy from a recent toilet.
"I’m going to give you some tea," she said, striking a match and
lighting the lamp under the kettle at his elbow.
"Thanks, no," he said with an effort.
"Yes, you shall have some," she insisted, smiling in her gay little
friendly way.  "Come, Mr. Cleland, you are man of the world enough to
waive formality.  I’m going to sit here and make tea and talk to you.
Look at me!  Wouldn’t you like to be friends with me? Most men would."
He looked up, and his slightly drawn features relaxed.
"Yes," he said with a smile, "of course I would."
"That’s very human of you," she laughed.  "Shall we talk about Steve?
What did you think of that cablegram?  Did you ever hear of such a
crazy thing?"
He flushed with anger but said nothing.  The girl looked at him intently
over the steaming kettle, then went on measuring out tea.
"Shall I tell you about it, or would you rather that Steve told you?"
she asked carelessly, busy with her preparations.
"She is actually married to—Grismer—then?"
"Well—I suppose so.  You know him, of course."
"Yes."
"He is fascinating—in that unusual way of his—poor fellow.  Women like
him better than men do.  One meets him everywhere in artistic circles;
but do you know, Mr. Cleland, I’ve always seemed to be conscious of a
curious sort of latent hostility to Oswald Grismer, even among people he
frequents—among men, particularly. However, he has no intimates."
"If they are actually married," he said with an effort, "why does
Stephanie live here with you?"
"Oh, that was the ridiculous understanding.  I myself don’t know why she
married him.  The whole affair was a crazy, feather-brained
performance——"  She poured his tea and offered him a sugar biscuit,
which he declined.
"You see," she continued, curling up into the depths of her rickety
velvet arm-chair and taking her cup and a heap of sugar biscuits into
her lap, "Oswald Grismer has been Steve’s shadow—at her heels always—and
I know well enough that Stephanie was not insensible to the curious
fascination of the man.  You know how devotion impresses a girl—and he
is clever and good looking.
"And that was all very well, and I don’t think it would have amounted to
anything serious as long as Oswald was the amusing, good-looking, lazy
and rich amateur of sculpture, with plenty of leisure to saunter through
life and be charmingly attentive, and play with his profession when the
whim suited him."
She sipped her tea and looked at Cleland meditatively.
"Did you know he’d lost all his money?"
"No," said Cleland.
"Oh, yes.  He lost it a year ago.  He has scarcely anything, I believe.
He had a beautiful studio and apartment, wonderful treasures of antique
furniture; he had about everything a rich young man fancies.  It all
went."
"What was the matter?"
"Nobody knows.  He took a horrid little stable studio in Bleecker
Street, and he lives there.  And that’s why Steve did that crazy,
impulsive thing, I suppose."
"You mean she was sorry for him?"
"I think it must have been that—and the general fascination he had for
her—and his persistency and devotion.  Really, I don’t know, myself, how
she came to do it.  She did it on one of her ill-considered, generous,
headlong impulses.  Ask her.  All she ever told me was that she had
married Oswald and didn’t know how it was going to turn out, but had
decided to keep her own name for the present and continue to live with
me."
"Do they see each other—much?" he asked.
"Oh, they encounter each other here and there as usual.  He drops in
here every day."
"Does she go—there?"
"I don’t know," said the girl gravely.
He had set aside his tea, untasted.  She, still curled up in her
arm-chair, ate and drank with a delightfully healthy appetite.
"Would you prefer a highball?" she enquired.  "I could fix you one."
"No, thank you."  He rose and began to walk nervously about the studio.
Her perplexed, brown eyes followed him.  It was clear that she could not
make him out.
Natural chagrin at a clandestine marriage might account for his manner.
Probably it was that, because Stephanie could not have meant anything
more personal and serious to him, or he could not have remained away so
long.
He stopped abruptly in his aimless promenade and turned to Helen:
"Am I in the way?" he asked.
"My dear Mr. Cleland," she said, "we are a perfectly informal community.
If you were in the way I’d say so.  Also, I have a bed-room where I can
retire when Steve comes in.  Or you and she can go into her room to talk
things over."  She lighted another cigarette, rose, strolled over to the
wax horse, with a friendly smile at him.
"I was just making a sketch," she said.  "I’ve a jolly commission—two
bronze horses for the Hispano-Moresque Museum.  The Cid is on one,
Saladin on the other.  I was just fussing with an idea when you rang."
He came and stood beside her, looking at the sketch.
"I’ve a fine, glass-roofed courtyard in the rear of the studio for my
animal models—horses and dogs and any beast I require," she explained.
"This sort of thing comes first, of course.  I think I’ll get Oswald to
pose for the Cid."
She stood contemplating her sketch, the cigarette balanced between her
fingers; then, of a sudden, she turned swiftly around to confront him.
"Mr. Cleland, it is a dreadful and foolish and irrational thing that
Steve has done, and I know you are justly angry.  But—she is a darling
in spite of being a feather-head sometimes.  You will forgive her,
won’t you?"
"Of course.  After all, it is her business."
Helen sighed:
"You are angry.  But please don’t lose interest in her.  She’s so
loyal to you.  She adores you, Mr. Cleland——"
A key rattled in the lock; the door swung open; into the dusky studio
stepped a slender figure, charmingly buoyant and graceful in the fading
light.
"Helen, they’re to send our costumes in an hour. They are the most
fascinating things——"
Stephanie’s voice ceased abruptly.  There was a silence.
"Who is—that?" she asked unsteadily.
Helen turned and went quietly away toward her bed-room.  Stephanie stood
as though frozen, then reached forward and pressed the electric button
with a gloved finger that trembled.
"Jim!" she whispered.
She stole forward, nearer, close to him, still incredulous, her grey
eyes wide with excitement; then, with a little sobbing cry she threw
both arms around his neck.
She had laughed and cried there in his arms; her lovely head and
disordered hair witnessed the passionate ardour of her welcome to this
man who now sat beside her in her bed-room, her hands clasped in his,
and all her young soul’s adoration in her splendid eyes.
"Oh," she whispered again and again, "—Oh, to have you back, Jim.  That
is too heavenly to believe. You dear, dear boy—so good looking—and a
little older and graver——"  She nestled close to him, laying her cheek
against his.
She murmured:
"It seems too delicious to endure.  You do love me, don’t you, Jim?  We
haven’t anybody else in the world except each other, you know.  Isn’t it
good—good to have each other again!  It’s been like a dream, your
absence.  You gradually became unreal—a dear, beloved memory.  Somehow,
I didn’t think you’d ever come back.  Are you happy to be with me?"
"Happier than you know, Steve——"  His voice trembled oddly and he drew
her into his arms: "Good God," he said under his breath, "—I must have
been mad to leave you to your own devices so long!  I ought to be shot!"
"What do you mean, Jim?"
"You know.  Oh, Steve, Steve, I can’t understand—I simply can not
understand."
After a silence she lifted her head and rested her lips softly against
his cheek.
"Do you mean—my marrying Oswald?" she asked.
"Yes.  Why did you do such a thing?"
She bent her head, considering the question for a while in silence.
Then she said calmly:
"There’s one reason why I did it that I can’t tell you.  I promised him
not to.  Another reason was that he was very much in love with me.  I
don’t know exactly what it is that I feel for him—but he does fascinate
me.  He always did, somehow.  Even as a boy——"
"You didn’t know him as a boy!"
"No.  But I saw him once.  And I realize now that I was even then
vaguely conscious of an odd interest in him.  And that time at
Cambridge, too.  He had that same, indefinable attraction for me——"
"You are in love with him then!"
"I don’t know.  Jim, I don’t think it is love.  I don’t think I know
what love really is.  So, knowing this, but being grateful to him, and
deeply sorry——"
"Why?"
"I can’t tell you why.  Perhaps I’ll tell you sometime.  But I was very
grateful and sorry and—and more or less moved—fascinated.  It’s funny;
there are things I don’t like about Oswald, and still I can’t keep away
from him....  Well, so everything seemed to combine to make me try it——"
"Try what?"
"Marrying him."
"What do you mean by ’trying it?’"
"Why, it’s a trial marriage——"
"Good God!" he said.  "What do you mean?"
"I mean it’s a trial marriage," she repeated coolly.
"You mean there was no—no ceremony?" he stammered.
"There wasn’t any ceremony.  We don’t believe in it.  We just said to
each other that we’d marry——"
"You mean you’ve—you’ve lived with that man on such terms of
understanding?" he demanded, white with rage.
"I don’t live with him.  I live here with Helen," she said, perplexed.
"All I would consent to was a trial marriage to see how it went for a
year or two——"
"Do you mean that what you’ve done is legal?"
"Oh, yes, it’s legal," she said seriously.  "I’ve found that out."
"And—you know wh-what I mean," he said, stammering in his anger; "Was
that sufficient for you?  Do you want me to speak plainer, Steve?  I
mean, have you—lived with him?"
She understood and dropped her reddening cheek on his shoulder.
"Have you?" he repeated harshly.
"No....  I thought you understood.  It is only a trial marriage; I’ve
tried to explain that—make it clear——"
"What loose-minded, unconventional Bohemians call a ’trial marriage,’"
he said, with brutal directness, "is an agreement between a pair of
fools to live as man and wife for a while with an understanding that a
formal ceremony shall ultimately confirm the irregularity if they find
themselves suited to each other.  Is that what you’ve done?"
"No."
He drew a deep, trembling breath of relief, took her in his arms and
held her close.
"My little Steve," he whispered, "—my own little Steve!  What sort of
trap is this he’s led you into?"
"No trap.  I wanted to try it."
"You wished it?"
"I was quite willing to try.  After a year or two, I’ll know whether I
shall ever care to live with him."
"After a year or two!"
"Yes.  That was the understanding.  And then, if I didn’t wish to live
with him, we can be very quietly divorced.  It was a crazy thing to
do.  But there wasn’t any real risk.  Besides——" She hesitated.
"Go on," he said.
"No, I can’t.  If I don’t fall in love with him, I certainly shall never
live with him.  So," she added calmly, "there’ll be no children to
complicate the parting.  You see I had some sense, Jim."
She lifted her head from his shoulder and smiled at him:
"It was just an escapade of sorts," she explained, more cheerfully.  "It
really doesn’t mean anything yet, and I fly around and have a wonderful
time, and maybe I’ll take up sculpture with Helen, and maybe I’ll try
the stage.  Anyway——" she pressed closer to him with a happy sigh, "I’ve
got you back, haven’t I?  So what do we care whether I’m his wife or
not?"
He said, holding her closely embraced:
"Suppose some other man should fall in love with you, Steve?"
"Oh!" she laughed.  "Plenty do.  Or say they do. I’m nice to them, and
they get along very well.... Your moustache is becoming to you, Jim."
She touched it curiously, with one tentative finger.
"But suppose you should return another man’s love some day?"
"I haven’t ever!" she said, laughing back into his eyes.
"No, but suppose you did?  And found yourself tied legally by a fool
agreement to Oswald Grismer?"
"Oh.  I never considered that."
"Consider it, now!"
"It isn’t likely to happen——"
"Consider it, all the same."
"Well—but I’ve never been in love.  But if it happened—well—that would
be a jolly mess, wouldn’t it?"
"I should think so!  What would you do about it?"
"There wouldn’t be anything to do except to wait until my two years of
trial marriage was up," she said thoughtfully.
"You could divorce him before that."
"Oh, no.  I promised to give him two years."
"To sit saddled with this ridiculous burden for two years?"
"Yes, I promised."
"Oh, Steve!  Steve!  What a muddle you have made of things!  What good
does it do you or him to have this chain between you?  You’ve lost your
liberty. You’re a legal wife without being one.  You’ve put shackles on
yourself for God knows what whim or caprice."
"But, Jim," she said, bewildered, "I expect to be his wife,
ultimately."
"What?"
"Of course.  I wasn’t absolutely sure that I could fall in love with
him, that was all.  I have very little doubt that I shall.  I like to be
with him: I am never bored when he is with me; our tastes are similar;
our beliefs are unconventional.  We suit each other admirably.  It
wasn’t such a rash thing to do.  You see, it is perfectly safe every
way."
For a long while he sat beside her in silence.  She had slipped out of
his arms and now sat with one hand lying across his, watching the
enigmatic expressions which flitted over his rather sombre and flushed
features.
Finally he looked up:
"Steve?"
"Yes?"
"Suppose I fell in love with—you?"
"Oh, Jim!"  She began to laugh, then the mirth faded in her grey eyes,
and her lips grew quiet and rather grave.
"You?" she said, half to herself.
"Do you remember some letters I once wrote you?"
"Yes."
"You wrote asking if I meant them to be love letters."
"Yes.  You answered very vaguely.  I think I frightened you," she said,
laughing.
"They were love letters," he said.  "I didn’t happen to know it; that
is all.  I was in love with you then. I didn’t realize it; you did not
believe it.  But now I know it was so."
"How could you have been in love with me?" she inquired, astonished.
"You asked me that in your letters.  I thought it over and I didn’t see
how I could be, either.  I wasn’t much more than a boy.  Boys drift with
the prevailing tide.  The tide set away from home and from you.... Yet,
I was in love with you once, Steve."
She bent her head and looked down gravely at her slender hand, which lay
across his.
"That was very dear of you," she murmured.
After a silence:
"And—you?" he asked.
"Do you mean, was I ever in love with you?"
"Yes."
"I—don’t—know.  I loved your letters.  There didn’t seem to be any room
in my heart for more affection than it held for you.  I adored you.  I
do now. Perhaps, if you had come back——"
"I wish I had!"
"Do you?"  She lifted her eyes to him curiously. "You know, Jim, I must
be honest with you.  I never did love anybody....  But, if you had come
home—and if you had told me that you cared for me—that way——"
"Yes."
"Well, I was just a girl.  You had my affections.  I could have been
taught very easily, I think—to care—differently——"
"And—now?"
"What?"
"Is it too late to teach you, Steve?"
"Why, yes.  Isn’t it?"
"Why?"
"I’m married."
"It’s a flimsy, miserable business!" he began angrily, but she flushed
and checked him with a hand against his lips.
"Besides—I do care for Oswald—very deeply," she said.  "Don’t say
painful things to me....  Don’t be sulky, Jim, dear.  This is
disconcerting me dreadfully.  We mustn’t make anything tragic out of
it—anything unhappy.  I’m so contented to have you back that I can’t
think of anything else....  Don’t let’s bother about love or anything
else!  What you and I feel for each other is more wonderful than love.
Isn’t it?  Oh, Jim, I do adore you.  We’ll be with each other now a
lot, won’t we?  You’ll take a studio in this district, and I’ll fly in
at all hours to see you, and you’ll come in to see me and we’ll do
things together—everything—theatres, dances, pictures, everything!  And
you will like Oswald, won’t you?  He’s really so nice, poor boy!"
"All right," he muttered.
They rose; he took both her hands into his and looked intently into her
grey eyes:
"I won’t spoil life for you," he said.  "I’ll be near you, now.  The old
intimacy must be strengthened. I’ve failed wretchedly in my
responsibilities; I’ll try to make up for my selfishness——"
"Oh, Jim!  I don’t think that way——"
"You are too generous.  You are too loyal.  You are quite the most
charming woman I ever knew, Steve—the sweetest, the most adorable.  I’ve
been a fool—blind and stupid."
"You mustn’t say such ridiculous things!  But it is dear of you to find
me attractive!  It really thrills me, Jim.  I’m about the happiest girl
in New York, I think!  Tell me, do you like Helen?"
"Yes, she’s nice.  Where are you dining, Steve? Could you——"
"Oh, dear!  Helen and I are dining out!  It’s a party.  We all go to the
ball.  But, Jim—do get a costume of some sort and come to the
Caricaturists’ Ball! Will you?  Helen and I are going.  It’s the Ball of
the Gods—the last costume ball of the season, and it is sure to be
amusing.  Will you come?"
He didn’t seem to think he could, but she insisted so eagerly and
promised to have an invitation at his hotel for him by nine o’clock,
that he laughed and said he’d go.
"Everybody artistic will be there," she explained, delighted.  "You’ll
meet a lot of men you know.  And the pageant will be wonderful.  I shall
be in it.  So will Helen.  Then, after the pageant, we’ll find each
other—you and I!——"  She sighed: "I am too happy, Jim. I don’t want to
arouse the anger of the gods."
She linked her arm in his and entered the studio.
"Helen!" she called.  "Jim is coming to the dance! Isn’t it delightful?"
"It is, indeed," said Helen, opening her door a little and looking
through the crack.  "You’d better tell him what you’re wearing, because
he will never know you."
"Oh, yes, indeed!  Helen and I are going as a pair of Burmese idols—just
gold all over—you know——?"
She took the stiff attitude of the wonderful Burmese idol, and threw
back her slender hands—"This sort of thing, Jim?  Tiny gold bells on our
ankles and that wonderful golden filigree head dress."
She was in wonderful spirits; she caught his arm and hand and persuaded
him into a two-step, humming the air.  "You dance nicely, Jim.  You can
have me whenever you like——"
Helen called through the door:
"You’re quite mad, Steve!  You’ve scarcely time to dress."
"Oh, I must run!" she cried, turned to Cleland, audaciously, offered her
lips, almost defiantly.
"We’re quite safe, Jim, if we can do this so innocently."  She
laughed.  "You adorable boy!  Oh, Jim, you’re mine now, and I’ll never
let you go away again!"
As he went out, he met Grismer, face to face.  The blood leaped hotly in
his cheeks; Grismer’s golden eyes opened in astonishment:
"Cleland!  By all the gods!" he said, offering his hand.
Cleland took it, looked into Grismer’s handsome face:
"How are you, Grismer?" he said pleasantly.  And passed on out of the
front door.
                            *CHAPTER XVIII*
Cleland dined by himself in the lively, crowded café of the Hotel
Rochambeau—a sombre, taciturn young man, still upset by his encounter
with Grismer, still brooding impotent resentment against what Stephanie
had done.  Yet, in spite of this the thrill of seeing her again
persisted, filling him with subdued excitement.
He realized that the pretty, engaging college girl he had left three
years ago had developed into an amazingly lovely being with a delicately
vigorous and decisive beauty of her own, quite unexpected by him. But
there was absolutely no shyness, no awkwardness, no self-consciousness
in her undisguised affection for him; the years had neither altered nor
subdued her innocent acceptance of their relationship, nor made her less
frank, less confident, or less certain of it and of the happy security
it meant for both.
In spite of her twenty-one years, her education, her hospital
experience, Stephanie, in this regard, was a little girl still.  For her
the glamour of the school-boy had never departed from Cleland with the
advent of his manhood.  He was still, to her, the wonderful and
desirable playmate, the miraculous new brother, the exalted youth of her
girlhood; the beloved and ideal of their long separation—all she had on
earth that represented a substitute for kin and family ties and home.
That her loyal heart was still the tender, impulsive, youthful heart of
a girl was plain enough to him.  The frankness of her ardour, her
instant happy surrender, her clinging to him in a passion of gratitude
and delight, all told him her story.  But it made what she had done with
Grismer the more maddening and inexplicable; and at every thought of it
a gust of jealousy swept him.
He ate his dinner scarcely conscious of the jolly tumult around him, and
presently went upstairs to his rooms to rummage in one of his trunks for
a costume;—souvenir of some ancient Latin Quarter revelry—Closerie des
Lilas or Quat’z Arts, perhaps.
Under his door had been thrust an envelope containing a card bearing his
invitation, and Stephanie had written on it: "It will all be spoiled if
you are not there. Don’t forget that you’ll have to dress as a god of
sorts. All other costumes are barred."
What he had would do excellently.  His costume of a blessed companion of
Mahomet in white, green and silver, with its jeweled scimitar, its
close-fitted body dress, gorget, and light silver head-piece,
represented acceptably the ideal garb of the Lion of God militant.
Toward eleven o’clock, regarding himself rather gloomily in the mirror,
the reflected image of an exceedingly good-looking Fourth Caliph, with
the faint line of a mustache darkening his short upper lip and the green
gems of a true believer glittering on casque and girdle and hilt,
cheered the young man considerably.
"If I’m not a god," he thought, "I’m henchman to one."  And he twisted
the pale green turban around his helmet and sent for a taxicab.
The streets around the Garden were jammed. Mounted and foot-police
laboured to keep back the curious crowds and to direct the crush of
arriving vehicles laden with fantastic figures in silks and jewels.
Arcades, portico, and the broad lobby leading to the amphitheatre were
thronged with animated merrymakers in brilliant costumes; and Cleland
received his cab-call number from the uniformed starter and joined the
glittering stream which carried him resistlessly with it through the
gates and presently landed him somewhere in a seat, set amid a solidly
packed tier of gaily-costumed people.
An immense sound of chatter and laughter filled the vast place, scarcely
subdued by the magic of a huge massed orchestra.
The Garden had been set to represent Mount Olympus; white pigeons were
flying everywhere amid flowers and foliage; the backdrop was painted
like a blue horizon full of rosy clouds, and the two entrances were
divided by a marble-edged pool in which white swans sailed unconcerned
and big scarlet gold-fish swam in the limpid water among floating
blossoms.
But he had little time to gaze about through the lilac-haze of tobacco
smoke hanging like an Ægean mist across the dancing floor, for already
boy trumpeters, in white tunics and crowned with roses, were sounding
the flourish and were dragging back the iris-hued hangings at either
entrance.
The opening pageant had begun.
From the right entrance came the Greek gods and heroes—Zeus aloft in a
chariot, shaking his brazen thunder bolts; Athene in helmet and tunic,
clutching a stuffed owl; Astarte very obvious, long-legged and pretty;
Mars with drawn sword and fiery copper armour; Hermes wearing wings on
temples and ankles and skilfully juggling the caduceus, Aphrodite most
casually garbed in gauze, perfectly fashioned by her Maker and rather
too visible in lovely detail.
Eros, very feminine too, lacked sartorial protection except for a pair
of wings and a merciful sash from which hung quiver and bow.  In fact,
it was becoming startlingly apparent that the artists responsible for
the Ball of All the Gods scorned to conceal or mitigate the classical
and accepted legends concerning them and their costumes—or lack of
costumes.
Fauns, dryads, nymphs, satyrs, naiads, bacchantes poured out from the
right entrance, eddying in snowy whirlpools around the chariots of the
Grecian gods; and the influence of the Russian ballet was visible in
every lithely leaping figure.
Contemporaneously, from the left entrance, emerged the old Norse gods:
Odin, shaggy and fully armed; Loki, all a-glitter with dancing flames;
Baldin the Beautiful, smirking; Fenris the Wolf; Frija, blond and
fiercely beautiful—the entire Norse galaxy surrounded by skin-clad
warriors and their blond, half-naked mates.
The two processions, moving in parallel lines along the north and south
tiers of boxes, were overlapping and passing each other now, led in a
winding march by trumpeters; and all the while, from either entrance new
bevies of gods and immortals were emerging—the deities of Ancient Egypt
moving stiffly in their splendid panoply; the gods of the ancient
Western World led by the Holder of Heaven and Hiawatha, and followed by
the Eight Thunders plumed in white escorting the Lake Serpent—a young
girl, lithe and sinuous as a snake and glittering from head to foot,
with the serpent spot on her forehead.
Ancient China, in bewildering silks, entered like a moving garden of
flowers; then India came in gemmed magnificence led by the divine son of
Suddhodana.
He bore the bow of black steel with gold tendrils—the Bow of Sinhahânu.
He was dressed as the Prince Siddhartha, in the garb of a warrior of
Oudh.  Bow and sabre betrayed the period—the epoch of his trial against
all comers to win the Sâkya girl Yasôdhara.
As he passed, Cleland, leaning forward, scanned the splendid and
militant figure intently; and recognized Oswald Grismer under the
glimmering dress of the young Buddha militant.
To left and right of the youthful god advanced two girls, all in
relieved stiff gold from the soles of their up-turned sandals to the
fantastic pagoda peak of their head-dresses.
They wore golden Burmese masks; their bodies to the girdles were covered
with open-work golden filigree; from the fantastic pagoda-like
shoulder-pieces gold gauze swept away like the folded golden wings of
dragon-flies; golden bangles and bells tinkled on wrist and ankle.
With slim hands uplifted like the gilded idols they represented, the
open eye painted in the middle of each palm became visible.  Around them
swirled a dazzling throng of Nautch girls.
Suddenly they flung up their arms: the stiff gold masks and
body-encasements cracked like gilded mummy cases and fell down clashing
around their naked feet, and from the cold, glittering chrysalids
stepped out two warm, living, enchantingly youthful figures, lithe and
supple, saluting the Prince Siddhartha with bare arms crossed above
their breasts.
To one, representing his mother, Maya, he turned, laying the emblems of
temporal power at her feet.  And, in her, Cleland recognized Helen
Davis.
But his eyes were for the other—the Sâkya girl Yasôdhara in gold sari
and chuddah, her body clasped with a belt of emeralds and a girdle of
the same gems tied below her breasts.
The young Lord Buddha laid the living Rose of the World in her hands.
She bent her head and drew it through her breast-girdle.  Then,
silk-soft, exquisite, the Sâkya maid lifted her satin-lidded eyes,
sweeping the massed audience above as though seeking some one. And
Cleland saw that her eyes were lilac-grey; and that the girl was
Stephanie.
Suddenly the massed orchestras burst into an anachronistic two-step.
The illusion was shattered; the ball was on!  Assistants ran up and
gathered together the glittering débris and pushed chariot, papier maché
elephant and camel and palanquin through the two entrances; god seized
goddess, heroes nabbed nymphs; all Olympus and the outlying suburban
heavens began to foot it madly to the magic summons of George Cohan.
Under the blaze of lights the throng on the dancing floor swirled into
glittering whirlpools and ripples, brilliant as sunset on a restless
sea.  The gaily costumed audience, too, was rising everywhere and
leaving seats and stalls and boxes to join the dancing multitudes below.
Before he descended, Cleland saw Grismer and Stephanie dancing together,
the girl looking up over her shoulder as though still searching the
tiers of seats above for somebody expected.
Before he reached the floor he began to meet old friends and
acquaintances, more or less recognizable under strange head-dresses and
in stranger raiment.
He ran into Badger Spink, as a fawn in the spotted skin of a pard, his
thick hair on end and two little horns projecting.
"Hello," he said briefly; "you back?  Glad to see you—excuse me, but I’m
chasing a little devil of a dryad——"
He caught sight of her as he spoke; the girl shrieked and fled and after
her galloped the fawn, intent on capture.
Clarence Verne, colourless of skin in his sombrely magnificent Egyptian
dress, extended an Egyptian hand to him—the hand he remembered so well,
with its deep, pictographic cleft between forefinger and thumb.
"When did you come back, Cleland?" he inquired in that listless,
drugged voice of his.  "To-day?  Hope we’ll see something of you now....
Do you know that Nautch girl—the one in orange and silver?  She’s
Claudia Gwynn, the actress.  She hasn’t got much on, has she?  Can the
Ball des Quat’z beat this for an unconcerned revelation of form divine?"
"I don’t think it can," said Cleland, looking at a bacchante whose
raiment seemed to be voluminous enough.  The only trouble was that it
was also transparent.
"Nobody cares any more," remarked Verne in his drowsy voice.  "The
restless sex has had its way.  It always has been mad to shed its
clothes in public. First it danced barefooted, then it capered
barelegged. Loie, Isadora and Ruth St. Denis between ’em started the
fashion; Bakst went ’em one better; then society tore off its
shoulder-straps and shortened its petticoats; and the Australian
swimming Venus stripped for the screen.  It’s all right; I don’t care.
Only it’s a bore to have one’s imagination become atrophied from
disuse....  If I can find a girl thoroughly covered I’d be interested."
He sauntered away to search, and Cleland edged around the shore of the
dancing floor, where the flotsam from the glittering maelstrom in the
centre had been cast up.
Threading his way amid god and goddess, nymph and hero, he met and
recognized Philip Grayson, one of his youthful masters at school—a tall,
handsome figure in Greek armour.
"This is nice, Cleland," he said cordially.  "Didn’t know you were back.
Quite a number of your old school fellows here!"
"Who?"
"Oswald Grismer——"
"I saw him."
"Did you run across Harry Belter?"
"No," exclaimed Cleland, "is he here?"
"Very much so.  Harry is always in the thick of things artistic.  How
goes literature with you?"
"I came back to start things," said Cleland.  "How does it pan out with
you?"
"Well," said Grayson, "I write things that are taken by what people call
the ’better class’ magazines.  It doesn’t seem to advance me much."
"Cheer up.  Try a human magazine and become a best seller," said
Cleland, laughing.
And he continued his search for Stephanie.
There was a crush on the floor—too many dancing in the beginning—and all
he could do was to prowl along the side lines.  In a lower-tier box he
noticed a fat youth, easily recognizable as Bacchus.  His wreath of wax
grapes he wore rakishly over one eye; he sat at a table with several
thirsty dryads and bestowed impartial caresses and champagne.
Occasionally he burst into throaty song in praise of the grape.
"Harry Belter!" cried Cleland.
"Hey!  Who?" demanded Bacchus, leaning over the edge of the box, his
glass suspended.  "No!  It isn’t Jim Cleland!  I won’t believe it!  It’s
only a yearned-for vision come to plague and torment me in my old
age——!"  He got up, leaned over and seized Cleland by his silken
sabre-belt:
"Jim!  It is you!  To my arms, old scout——!" embracing him
vociferously.  "Welcome, dear argonaut! Ladies!  Prepare to blush and
tremble with pleasurable emotion!" he cried, turning to his attendant
dryads.  "This is my alter ego, James Cleland—my beloved comrade in
villainy—my incomparable breaker of feminine hearts!  You all shall
adore him. You shall dote upon him.  Ready!  Attention!  Dote!"
"I’m doting like mad," said a bright-eyed dryad, looking down invitingly
at the handsome young fellow. "Only if he’s a Turk I simply won’t stand
for a harem!"
"In the Prophet’s Paradise," said Cleland, laughing, "there’s no
marriage or giving in marriage.  Will you take a chance, pretty dryad?
All the girls are on an equal footing in the Paradise of Mahomet, and we
Caliphs just saunter from houri to houri and tell each that she’s the
only one!"
"Saunter this way, please," cried another youthful dryad, adjusting the
wreath of water-lilies so that she could more effectively use her big
dark eyes on him.
Belter whispered:
"They’re from the new show—’Can You Beat It!’—just opened to record
business.  Better pick one while the picking’s good.  Come on up!"
But Cleland merely lingered to pay his compliments a few moments longer,
then, declining to enter the box and join Belter in vocal praise of the
grape, and eluding that gentleman’s fond clutch, he dodged and slipped
away to continue his quest of the silken, slender Sâkya girl somewhere
engulfed amid all this glitter, surging, beating noisily around him.
Frequently, as he made his devious way forward, men and women of the
more fashionable and philistine world recognized and greeted him; he was
constantly stopping to speak to acquaintances of what used to be the
saner sets, renew half-forgotten friendships, exchange lively
compliments and gay civilities.
But he failed to detect any vast and radical difference between the
world and the three-quarter world.  The area in square inches of bare
skin displayed by a young matron of his own sort matched the satin
nakedness of some animated ornament from the Follies.
As he stood surveying the gorgeous throng he seemed to be subtlely aware
of a tension, an occult strain keying to the breaking point each eager,
laughing woman he looked at.  The scented atmosphere was heavy with it;
the rushing outpour of the violins was charged with it; it was something
more than temporary excitement, more than the reckless gaiety of the
moment; it was something that had become part of these women—a vast,
deep-bitten restlessness possessing them soul and body.
The aspiring quest for the hitherto unattainable, the headlong hunt for
happiness, these were human and definite and to be comprehended: but
this immense, aimless, objectless restlessness, mental or spiritual,
whichever it might be, seemed totally different.
It was like a blind, crab-like, purposeless, sidling migration in mass
of the prehistoric female race—before it had created the male for its
convenience—wandering out into and over-running the primeval wastes of
the world, swarming, crawling at random—not conscious of what it
desired, not knowing what it might be seeking, aware only of the
imperative urge within it which set it in universal motion.  Only to
weary, after a few million years of subdivision and self-fertilization,
and casually extemporize the sterner sex.  And settle again into
primeval lethargy and the somnolent inertia of automatic reproduction.
Watching the golden human butterflies whirling around him swept into
eddies by thunderous gusts of music, he thought, involuntarily of those
filmy winged creatures that dance madly in millions and millions over
northern rivers and are swept in sparkling clouds amid the rainbow spray
of cataracts out into the evening splendour of annihilation.
He met a pretty woman he knew—had thought that he had known once—and
reddened slightly at the audacity of her Grecian raiment.  Her husband—a
Harvard man he had known—was with her, in eye-glasses and a Grecian
helmet—Ajax the Greater, he explained.
They lingered to exchange a word; she beat time to the music with
sandalled foot, a feverish brilliancy in eyes and cheeks.
"The whole world," said Cleland, "seems strung too tightly.  I noticed
it abroad, too.  There’s a tension that’s bound to break; the skies of
the whole earth are full of lightning.  Something is going to blow up."
"Hope it won’t be the stock market," said the man. "I don’t get you,
Cleland—you always were literary."
"He means war," said his wife, restlessly fanning her flushed cheeks.
"Or suffrage.  Which do you mean, Mr. Cleland?"
"You’ve got all you want—practically—haven’t you?" he asked.
"Practically.  It’s a matter of a year or so—the vote."
"What will you do next?" he inquired, smiling.
"Heaven knows, but we’ve simply got to keep doing something," she said.
"What a ghastly bore to attain everything!  If you men really love us,
for goodness’ sake keep on tyrannizing over us and giving us something
to fight for!"
She laughed and blew him a kiss as her husband encircled her Grecian
waist and steered her out into the fox-trotting throng, her flimsy
draperies fluttering like the wind-blown tunic of a Tanagra dancing
figure.
The stamp and jingling din of Nautch girls rang in his ears as he turned
away and looked out over the shifting crowd.
Everywhere he recognized people he had met or heard about, men eminent
or notorious in their vocations, actors, painters, writers, architects,
musicians—men of science, lawyers, promoters, officers of industry
commissioned and non-commissioned, the gayer element of the stage were
radiantly in evidence, usually in the dancing embrace of Broad and Wall
Streets; artistic masculine worth and youth pranced proudly with
femininity of social attainment; the beautiful unplaced were there in
daring deshabille, captivating solid domestic character which had come
there wifeless and receptive.
Suddenly he saw Stephanie.  She was leaning back against the side of the
arena, besieged by a ring of men.  Gales of laughter swept her brilliant
entourage of gods and demons, fauns and heroes, all crowding about to
pay their eager court.  And Stephanie, laughing back at them from the
centre of the three-fold circle, her arms crossed behind her, stood
leaning against the side of the amphitheatre under a steady rain of rose
petals dropped on her by some young fellows in the box above her.
Through this rosy rain, through the three-fold ring of glittering gods,
she caught sight of Cleland—met his gaze with a soft, quick cry of
delight.
Out through the circle of chagrined Olympians she sprang on sandalled
feet, not noticing these protesting suitors; and with both lovely,
rounded arms outstretched, her jewelled hands fell into Cleland’s,
clasping them tightly in an ecstacy of possession.
"I couldn’t find you," she explained breathlessly.  "I was so dreadfully
afraid you hadn’t come!  Isn’t it all magnificent!  Isn’t it wonderful!
Did you see the pageant?  Did you ever see anything as splendid? Slip
your arm around me; we can walk better together in this crush——" passing
her own bare arm confidently over his shoulder and falling into step
with him.
"I saw you in the pageant," he said, encircling with his arm the silken
body-vestment of her slender waist.
"Did you?  Did you see Helen and me come out of our golden chrysalids?
Was it pretty?"
"Charming and unexpected.  You are quite the most beautiful thing on the
floor to-night."
"Really, Jim, do you think so?  You darling boy, to say it!  I’m having
a wonderful time.  How handsome you are in your dress of a young
oriental warrior!"
"I’m the fourth Caliph, Ali," he explained.  "I had this costume made in
Paris."
"It’s bewitching, Jim.  You are good looking!—you adorable brother of
mine.  Do you like my paste emeralds?  You don’t think I’m too scantily
clad, do you?"
"That seems to be the general fashion——"
"Oh, Jim!  There are lots of others much more undressed.  Besides, one
simply has to be historical and accurate or one is taken for an
ignoramus.  If I’m to to impersonate the Sâkya girl, Yassôdhara, before
she became Lord Buddha’s wife, I must wear what she probably wore.
Don’t you see?"
"Perfectly," he said, laughing.  "But you of the artistic and
unconventional guilds ought to leave the audacious costumes to your
models.  But, of course, that’s too much to ask of you."
"Indeed it is!" she said gaily.  "If some of us think we’re rather
nicely made why shouldn’t we dare a little artistically—in the name of
beauty and of art? ... Oh, Jim!—it’s the tango they’re beginning. Will
you!—with me?"
They danced the exquisitely graceful measure together, her little
golden-sandalled feet flashing noiselessly through the intricate steps,
lingering, swaying, gliding faultlessly in unison with his as though
part of his own body.
The fascinating rhythm of the Argentine music throbbed through the
perfumed air; a bright, whispering wilderness of silk and jewels swayed
rustling all around them; bare arms and shoulders, brilliant lips and
eyes floated through their line of dreary vision; figures like phantoms
passed in an endless rosy chain through the lustrous haze of motion.
They danced together whatever came; Stephanie, like a child fearful of
being abandoned, kept one slim jewelled hand fast hold of his sleeve or
girdle when they were not dancing.  To one and all who came to argue or
present fancied prior claims she turned a deaf ear and laughing lips,
listening to no pleading, no claims.
She threatened Harry Belter with the flat of her palm, warning him
indignantly when he attempted a two-step, by violence; she closed her
ears to Badger Spink, who danced with rage in his goat-skins; she waved
away Verne in all his Egyptian splendour; she let her grey eyes rest in
an insolent stare at two of Belter’s dryads who encircled Cleland’s
waist with avowed intent to make him their prisoner and dedicate him to
vocal praise of the vine.
Then there was a faint clash and flash of iridescence, and the Prince
Siddhartha confronted her, golden-eyed, golden-skinned, golden-haired,
magnificent in his golden vestments.
"Oswald!" she cried.  "Oh, I am glad.  Jim!  You and Oswald will be
friends, won’t you?  You’re such dears—you simply must like each other!"
They shook hands, looking with curious intentness at each other.
"I’ve always liked you, Cleland," said Grismer gracefully. "I don’t
think you ever cared for me very much, but I wish you might."
"I have found you—agreeable, Grismer.  We were friendly at school and
college together——"
"I hope our friendliness may continue."
"I—hope so."
Grismer smiled:
"Drop in whenever you care to, Cleland, and talk things over.  We’ve a
lot to say to each other, I think."
"Thanks." ... He looked hard at Grismer.  "All right; I’ll do it."
Grismer nodded:
"I’ve a kennel of sorts in Bleecker Street.  But you might be interested
in one or two things I’m working on.  You see," he added with careless
good humour, "I’m obliged to work, now."
Cleland said in a low voice:
"I’m sorry things went wrong with you."
"Oh, they didn’t.  It was quite all right, Cleland. I really don’t mind.
Will you really drop in some day soon?"
"Yes."
Dancing began again.  Grismer stepped back with the easy, graceful
courtesy that became him, conceding Stephanie to Cleland as a matter of
course; and the latter, who had been ready to claim her, found himself
disarmed in advance.
"Is it Grismer’s dance, Steve?" he asked.
"I promised him.  But, Jim, I’m afraid to let you go——"
They all laughed, and she added:
"When a girl gets a man back after three long years, is it astonishing
that she keeps tight hold of him?"
"You’d better dance with her, Cleland," said Grismer, smiling.
But Cleland could not accept a gift from this man, and he surrendered
her with sufficient grace.
"Jim!" she said frankly.  "You’re not going after that dryad, are you?
She’s exceedingly common and quite shamelessly under-dressed.  Shall I
introduce you to a nice girl—or do you know a sufficient number?"
"You know," he said, laughing, "that I ought to play my part of Fourth
Caliph and go and capture a pretty widow——"
"What!"
"Certainly," he said tranquilly; "didn’t Ali take prisoner Ayesha, the
youthful widow of Mohammed? I’ll look about while you’re dancing——"
"I don’t wish you to!" she exclaimed, half vexed, half laughing.
"Oswald, does he mean it?"
"He looks as though he does," replied Grismer, amused.  "There’s a
Goddess of Night over there, Cleland—very pretty and very unconcealed
under a cloud of spangled stars——"
"Oswald!  I don’t wish him to!  Jim!  Listen to me, please——!" for he
had already started toward the little brunette Goddess of Night.  "We
have box seven! Please remember.  I shall wait for you!"
"Right!" he nodded, now intently bent on displeasing her; a little
excited, too, by her solicitude, yet sullenly understanding that it
sprang from no deeper emotion than her youthful heart had yet betrayed
for him.  No woman ever let a man go willingly, whether kin or
lover—whether she had use for him or not.
Stephanie, managing to keep him in view among the dancers, saw the
little Goddess of Night, with her impudent up-tilted nose, floating amid
her scandalously diaphanous draperies in his arms through a dreamy
tango, farther and farther away from her.
Things went wrong with her, too; she dropped her emerald girdle and
several of the paste stones rolled away; the silk of her body-vest
ripped, revealing the snowy skin, and she had to knot her gold sari
higher. Then the jewelled thong of her left sandal snapped and she lost
it for a moment.
"The devil!" she said, slipping her bare foot into it and half skating
toward the nearest lower-tier box.
"There he is over there," remarked Grismer, indicating a regulation
Mephistopheles, wearing a blood-red jerkin laced with a wealth of
superfluous points. "Wait; I’ll borrow a lace of him."
The devil was polite and had no objection to being despoiled; and
Grismer came back with a chamois thong and mended her sandal for her
while she sat in their box and watched the tumult surging below.
He chatted gaily with her for a while, leaning there on the box’s edge
beside her, but Stephanie had become smilingly inattentive and
preoccupied, and he watched her in silence, now, curiously, a little
perplexed by her preoccupation.  For it was most unusual for her to
betray inattention when with him.  It was not like her. He could not
remember her ever being visibly uninterested in him—ever displaying
preoccupation or indifference when in his company.
However, the excitement of seeing her brother again so unexpectedly
accounted for it no doubt.
The excitement and pleasure of seeing her—brother! ... A slight
consciousness of the fact that there was no actual kinship between this
girl and Cleland passed through his mind without disturbing his
tranquillity.  He merely happened to think of it.... He happened to
recollect it; that was all.
"Stephanie?"
"Yes."
"Shall we sit out this dance?  Your sandal string will hold."
"I don’t know," she said.  "Who is that dancing with Helen?  Over there
to the left——"
"I see her.  I don’t know—oh, yes—it’s Phil Grayson."
"Is it?  I wonder where Jim went with that woman! ... I’m horribly
thirsty, Oswald."
"Shall we have some supper?"
"Where is it?  Oh, down there!  What a stuffy place!  It’s too awful.
Couldn’t you get something here?"
He managed to bribe one perspiring and distracted waiter, and after a
long while he brought a tray towering with salads, ices and bottles.
Helen and Philip Grayson came back and the former immediately revealed a
healthy appetite.
"Don’t you want anything to eat, Steve?" she inquired.  "This shrimp
salad isn’t bad."
"I’m not hungry."
"You seem to be thirsty," remarked Helen, looking at the girl’s flushed
face and her half-filled wine glass. "Where is Jim?"
"Dancing."
"With whom?"
"Some girl of sorts whom he picked up," said Stephanie; and the pink
flush in her face deepened angrily.
"Was she worth it?" inquired Helen, frankly amused.
Stephanie’s cheeks cooled; she replied carelessly:
"She had button eyes and a snub nose and her attire was transparent—if
that interests you."  She rested her elbow on the edge of the box,
supporting her chin on her cupped palm.
They were dancing again.  Grayson came and took out Helen; a number of
men arrived clamouring for Stephanie.  She finally went out with Verne,
but not liking the way he held her left him planted and returned to the
box where a number of hilarious young men had gathered.
Harry Belter said:
"What’s the trouble, Steve?  I never saw you glum before in all my
