through iron bars. He could hear somebody snoring, and 
he called half a dozen times, in a louder and louder voice, 
until at last, hearing a growl, he inquired, " Can you 
give me a drink of water ? " 
" I'll give you hell if you wake me up again," said the 
voice; after which Hal lay in silence until morning. 
A couple of hours after daylight, a man entered his cell. 
" Get up," said he, and added a prod with his foot. Hal 
had thought he could not do it, but he got up. 
" No funny business now," said his jailer, and grasping 
him by the sleeve of his coat, marched him out of the cell 
and down a little corridor into a sort of office, where sat a 
red-faced personage with a silver shield upon the lapel of 
his coat. Hal's two assailants of the night before stood 
nearby. 
" Well, kid ? " said the personage in the chair. " Had 
a little time to think it over ? " 
 
" Tee," said Hal, briefly. 
" What's the charge ? " inquired the personage, of the 
two watchmen. 
" Trespassing and resisting arrest." 
" How much money you got, young fellow ? " was the 
next question. 
Hal hesitated. 
" Speak up there ! " said the man. 
" Two dollars and sixty-seven cents," said Hal — " as 
well as I can remember." 
" Go on ! " said the other. " What you givin' us ? " 
And then, to the two watchmen, " Search him." 
" Take off your coat and pants," said Bill, promptly, 
" and your boots." 
" Oh, I say ! " protested Hal. 
" Take 'em off ! " said the man, and clenched his fists. 
Hal took 'em off, and they proceeded to go through the 
pockets, producing a purse with the amount stated, also a 
cheap watch, a strong pocket knife, the tooth-brush, comb 
and mirror, and two white handkerchiefs, which they 
looked at contemptuously and tossed to the spittle-drenched 
floor. 
They unrolled the pack, and threw the clean clothing 
about. Then, opening the pocket-knife, they proceeded 
to pry about the soles and heels of the boots, and to cut 
open the lining of the clothing. So they found the ten 
dollars in the belt, which they tossed onto the table with 
the other belongings. Then the personage with the shield 
announced, " I fine you twelve dollars and sixty-seven 
cents, and your watch and knife." He added, with a 
grin, " You can keep your snot-rags." 
" Now see here ! " said Hal, angrily. " This is pretty 
raw!" 
" You get your duds on, young f ellow* and get out of 
here as quick as you can, or you'll go in your shirt-tail." 
But Hal was angry enough to have been willing to go 
 
in his skin. " You tell me who you are, and your au- 
thority for this procedure ? " 
" I'm marshal of the camp," said the man. 
" You mean you're an employe of the General Fuel 
Company? And you propose to rob me — " 
" Put him out, Bill," said the marshal. And Hal saw 
Bill's fists clench. 
"All right," he said, swallowing his indignation. 
"Wait till I get my clothes on." And he proceeded to 
dress as quickly as possible ; he rolled up his blanket and 
spare clothing, and started for the door. 
" Remember," said the marshal, " straight down the 
canyon with you, and if you show your face round here 
again, you'll get a bullet through you." 
So Hal went out into the sunshine, with a guard on 
each side of him as an escort. He was on the same moun- 
tain road, but in the midst of the company-village. In 
the distance he saw the great building of the breaker, 
and heard the incessant roar of machinery and falling 
coal. He marched past a double lane of company houses 
and shanties, where slattern women in doorways and dirty 
children digging in the dust of the roadside paused and 
grinned at him — for he limped as he walked, and it was 
evident enough what had happened to him. 
Hal had come with love and curiosity. The love was 
greatly diminished — ^ evidently this was not the force 
which kept the wheels of industry a-roll. But the curi- 
osity was greater than ever. What was there so care- 
fully hidden inside this coal-camp stockade? 
Hal turned and looked at Bill, who had showed signs 
of humour the day before. " See here," said he, " you 
fellows have got my money, and you've blacked my eye 
and kicked me blue, so you ought to be satisfied. Before 
I go, tell me about it, won't you ? " 
" Tell you what ? " growled Bill. 
"Why did I get this?" 
 
" Because you're too gay, kid. Didn't you know you 
had no business trying to sneak in here ? " 
" Yes," said Hal ; " but that's not what I mean. Why 
didn't you let me in at first ? " 
" If you wanted a job in a mine,'' demanded the man, 
" why didn't you go at it in the regular way ? " 
" I didn't know the regular way." 
" That's just it. And we wasn't takin' chances with 
you. You didn't look straight." 
"But what did you think I was? What are you 
afraid of ? " 
" Go on ! " said the man. " You can't work me ! " 
Hal walked a few steps in silence, pondering how to 
break through. " I see you're suspicious of me," he 
said. " I'll tell you the truth, if you'll let me." Then, 
as the other did not forbid him, " I'm a college boy, and 
I wanted to see life and shift for myself a while. I 
thought it would be a lark to come here." 
" Well," said Bill, " this ain't no foot-ball field. It's 
a coal-mine." 
Hal saw that his story had been accepted. " Tell me 
straight," he said, " what did you think I was ? " 
" Well, I don't mind telling," growled Bill. " There's 
union agitators trying to organise these here camps, and 
we ain't taking no chances with 'em. This company gets 
its men through agencies, and if you'd went and satisfied 
them, you'd 'a' been passed in the regular way. Or if 
you'd went to the office down in Pedro and got a pass, 
you'd 'a' been all right. But when a guy turns up at the 
gate, and looks like a dude and talks like a college per- 
fessor, he don't get by, see ? " 
" I see," said Hal. And then, " If you'll give me the 
price of a breakfast out of my money, I'll be obliged." 
" Breakfast is over," said Bill. " You sit round till 
the pinyons gets ripe." He laughed; but then, mellowed 
by his own joke, he took a quarter from his pocket and 
 
passed it to Hal. He opened the padlock on the gate and 
saw him out with a grin; and so ended Hal's first turn 
on the wheels of industry. 
 Hal Warner started to drag himself down the 
road, but was unable to make it. He got as far as a 
brooklet that came down the mountain-side, from which 
he might drink without fear of typhoid; there he lay the 
whole day, fasting. Towards evening a thunder-storm 
came up, and he crawled under the shelter of a rock, which 
was no shelter at all. His single blanket was soon soaked 
through, and he passed a night almost as miserable as 
the previous one. He could not sleep, but he could think, 
and he thought about what had happened to him. " Bill " 
had said that a coal mine was not a foot-ball field, but it 
seemed to Hal that the net impress of the two was very 
much the same. He congratulated himself that his pro- 
fession was not that of a union organiser. 
At dawn he dragged himself up, and continued- his 
journey, weak from cold and unaccustomed lack of food. 
In the course of the day he reached a power-station near 
the foot of the canyon. He did not have the price of a 
meal, and was afraid to beg; but in one of the group of 
buildings by the roadside was a store, and he entered and 
inquired concerning prunes, which were twenty-five cents 
a pound. The price was high, but so was the altitude, 
and as Hal found in the course of time, they explained 
the one by the other — not explaining, however, why the 
altitude of the price was always greater than the altitude 
of the store. Over the counter he saw a sign : " We buy 
scrip at ten per cent discount." He had heard rumours 
of a state law forbidding payment of wages in " scrip " ; 
but he asked no questions, and carried off his very light 
pound of prunes, and sat down by the roadside and 
munched them. 
V 
 
Just beyond the power-house, down on the railroad 
tracks stood a little cabin with a garden behind it. He 
made his way there, and found a one-legged old watchman. 
He asked permission to spend the night on the floor of the 
cabin ; and seeing the old fellow look at his black eye, he 
explained, "I tried to get a job at the mine, and they 
thought I was a union organiser." 
" Well," said the man, " I don't want no union organ- 
isers round here." 
" But I'm not one," pleaded Hal. 
" How do I know what you are ? Maybe you're a com- 
pany spy." 
"All I want is a dry place to sleep," said Hal. 
" Surely it won't be any harm for you to give me that." 
"I'm not so sure," the other answered. "However, 
you can spread your blanket in the corner. But don't 
you talk no union business to me." 
Hal had no desire to talk. He rolled himself in his 
blanket and slept like a man untroubled by either love or 
curiosity. In the morning the old fellow gave him a 
slice of corn bread and some young onions out of his 
garden, which had a more delicious taste than any break- 
fast that had ever been served him. When Hal thanked 
his host in parting, the latter remarked: "All right, 
young fellow, there's one thing you can do to pay me, and 
that is, say nothing about it. When a man has grey 
hair on his head and only one leg, he might as well be 
drowned in the creek as lose his job." 
Hal promised, and went his way. His bruises pained 
him less, and he was able to walk. There were ranch- 
houses in sight — it was like coming back suddenly to 
America ! 
 Hal had now before him a week's adventures as 
a hobo : a genuine hobo, with no ten dollar bill inside his 
belt to take the reality out of his experiences. He took 
 
stock of his worldly goods and wondered if he still looked 
like a dude. He recalled that he had a smile which had 
fascinated the ladies; would it work in combination with 
a black eye I Having no other means of support, he tried 
it on susceptible looking housewives, and found it so suc- 
cessful that he was tempted to doubt the wisdom of honest 
labour. He sang the Harrigan song no more, but instead 
the words of a hobo-song he had once heard : 
" Oh, what's the use of workin' when there's women 
in the land?" 
The second day he made the acquaintance of two other 
gentlemen of the road, who sat by the railroad-track toast- 
ing some bacon over a fire. They welcomed him, and 
after they had heard his story, adopted him into the fra- 
ternity and instructed him in its ways of life. Pretty 
soon he made the acquaintance of one who had been a 
miner, and was able to give him the information he 
needed before climbing another canyon. 
" Dutch Mike " was the name this person bore, for 
reasons he did not explain. He was a black-eyed and dan- 
gerous-looking rascalf and when the subject of mines and 
mining was broached, he opened up the flood-gates of an 
amazing reservoir of profanity. He was through with 
that game — Hal or any other God-damned fool might 
have his job for the asking. It was only because there 
were so many natural-born God-damned fools in the world 
that the game could be kept going. " Dutch Mike " went 
on to relate dreadful tales of mine-life, and to summon 
before him the ghosts of one pit-boss after another, con- 
signing them to the fires of eternal perdition. 
" I wanted to work while I was young," said he, " but 
now Pm cured, an' fer good." The world had come to 
seem to him a place especially constructed for the purpose 
of making him work, and every faculty he possessed was 
devoted to foiling this plot. Sitting by a camp-fire near 
the stream which ran down the valley, Hal had a merry 
 
time pointing out to " Dutch Mike " how he worked harder 
at dodging work than other men worked at working. The 
hobo did not seem to mind that, however — it was a mat- 
ter of principle with him, and he was willing to make 
sacrifices for his convictions. Even when they had sent 
hLn to the work-house, he had refused to work; he had 
been shut in a dungeon, and had nearly died on a diet 
of bread and water, rather than work. If everybody 
would do the same, he said, they would soon " bust things." 
Hal took a fancy to this spontaneous revolutionist, and 
travelled with him for a couple of days, in the course of 
which he pumped him as to details of the life of a miner. 
Most of the companies used regular employment agencies, 
as the guard had mentioned; but the trouble was, these 
agencies got something from your pay for a long time — 
the bosses were " in cahoots " with them. When Hal won- 
dered if this were not against the law, " Cut it out, Bo ! " 
said his companion. " When you've had a job for a while, 
you'll know that the law in a coal-camp is what your boss 
tells you." The hobo went on to register his conviction 
that when one man has the giving of jobs, and other men 
have to scramble for them, the law would never have much 
to say in the deal. Hal judged this a profound observa- 
tion, and wished that it might be communicated to the 
professor of political economy at Harrigan. 
. On the second night of his acquaintance with " Dutch 
Mike," their "jungle" was raided by a constable with 
half a dozen deputies; for a determined effort was being 
made just then to drive vagrants from the neighbourhood 
— or to get them to work in the mines. Hal's friend, who 
slept with one eye open, made a break in the darkness, and 
Hal followed him, getting under the guard of the raiders 
by a foot-ball trick. They left their food and blankets 
behind them, but " Dutch Mike " made light of this, and 
lifted a chicken from a roost to keep them cheerful through 
the night hours, and stole a change of underclothing off a 
 
clothes-line the next day. Hal ate the chicken, and wore 
the underclothing, thus beginning his career in crime. 
Parting from " Dutch Mike," he went back to Pedro. 
The hobo had told him that saloon-keepers nearly always 
had friends in the coal-camps, and could help a fellow to 
a job. So Hal began enquiring, and the second one re- 
plied, Yes, he would give him a letter to a man at North 
Valley, and if he got the job, the friend would deduct a 
dollar a month from his pay. Hal agreed, and set out 
upon another tramp up another canyon, upon the strength 
of a sandwich " bummed " from a ranch-house at the en- 
trance to the valley. At another stockaded gate of the 
General Fuel Company he presented his letter, addressed 
to a person named O'Callahan, who turned out also to be 
a saloon-keeper. 
The guard did not even open the letter, but passed Hal 
in at sight of it, and he sought out his man and applied 
for work. The man said he would help him, but would 
have to deduct a dollar a month for himself, as well as a 
dollar for his friend in Pedro. Hal kicked at this, and 
they bartered back and forth; finally, when Hall turned 
away and threatened to appeal directly to the " super," 
the saloon-keeper compromised on a dollar and a half. 
" You know mine-work ? " he asked. 
" Brought up at it," said Hal, made wise, now, in the 
ways of the world. 
" Where did you work ? " 
Hal named several mines, concerning which he had 
learned something from the hoboes. He was going by the 
name of " Joe Smith," which he judged likely to be found 
on the payroll of any mine. He had more than a week's 
growth of beard to disguise him, and had picked up some 
profanity as, well. 
The saloon-keeper took him to interview Mr. Alec Stone, 
pit-boss in Number Two mine, who inquired promptly: 
" You know anything about mules ? " 
 
"I worked in a stable," said Hal, "I know about 
horses." 
" Well, mules is different," said the man. " One of my 
stable-men got the colic the other day, and I don't know if 
he'll ever be any good again." 
" Give me a chance," said HaL " I'll manage them." 
The boss looked him over. " You look like a bright 
chap," said he. " I'll pay you forty-five a month, and if 
you make good I'll make it fifty." 
" All right, sir. When do I start in ? " 
" You can't start too quick to suit me. Where's your 
duds?'^ 
" This is all I've got," said Hal, pointing to the bundle 
of stolen underwear in his hand. 
" Well, chuck it there in the corner," said the man ; 
then suddenly he stopped, and looked at Hal, frowning. 
" You belong to any union ? " 
"Lord, no!" 
" Did you ever belong to any union ? " 
" No, sir. Never." 
The man's gaze seemed to imply that Hal was lying, 
and that his secret soul was about to be read. " You have 
to swear to that, you know, before you can work here." 
" All right," said Hal, " I'm willing." 
" I'll see you about it to-morrow," said the other. " I 
qjn't got the paper with me. By the way, what's your 
religion ? " 
" Seventh Day' Adventist." 
" Holy Christ ! What's that ? " 
" It don't hurt," said Hal. " I ain't supposed to work 
on Saturdays, but I do." 
" Well, don't you go preachin' it round here. We got 
our own preacher — you chip in fifty cents a month for 
him out of your wages. Come ahead now, and I'll take 
you down." And so it was that Hal got his start in 
life. 
 
 The mule is notoriously a profane and godless 
creature; a blind alley of Nature, so to speak, a mistake 
of which she is ashamed, and which she does not permit 
to reproduce itself. The thirty mules under Hal's charge 
had been brought up in an environment calculated to fos- 
ter the worst tendencies of their natures. He soon made 
the discovery that the " colic " of his predecessor had been 
caused by a mule's hind foot in the stomach; and he re- 
alised that he must not let his mind wander for an instant, 
if he were to avoid this dangerous disease. 
These mules lived their lives in the darkness of the 
earth's interior ; only when they fell sick were they taken 
up to see the sunlight and to roll about in green pastures. 
There was one of them called " Dago Charlie," who had 
learned to chew tobacco, and to rummage in the pockets 
of the miners and their " buddies." Not knowing how to 
spit out the juice, he would make himself ill, and then 
he would swear off from indulgence. But the drivers and 
the pit-boys knew his failing, and would tempt "Dago 
Charlie " until he fell from grace. Hal soon discovered 
this moral tragedy, and carried the pain of it in his soul 
as he went about his all-day drudgery. 
He went down the shaft with the first cage, which was 
very early in the morning. He fed and watered his 
charges, and helped to harness them. Then, when the 
last four hoofs had clattered away, he cleaned out the 
stalls, and mended harness, and obeyed the orders of any 
person older than himself who happened to be about. 
Next to the mules, his torment was the " trapper-boys," 
and other youngsters with whom he came into contact. 
He was a newcomer, and so they hazed him ; moreover, he 
had an inferior job — there seemed to their minds to be 
something humiliating and comic about the task of tend-* 
ing mules. These urchins came from a score of nations 
of Southern Europe and Asia; there were flat-faced Tar- 
tars and swarthy Greeks and shrewd-eyed little Japanese. 
 
They spoke a compromise language, consisting mainly of 
English curse words and obscenities; the filthiness which 
their minds had spawned was incredible to one born and 
raised in the sunlight. They alleged obscenities of their 
mothers and their grandmothers ; also of the Virgin Mary, 
the one mythological character they had heard of. Poor 
little creatures of the dark, their souls grimed and smut- 
ted even more quickly and irrevocably than their faces ! 
Hal had been advised by his boss to inquire for board 
at " Reminitsky's." He came up in the last car, at twi- 
light, and was directed to a dimly lighted building of 
corrugated iron, where upon inquiry he was met by a 
stout Russian, who told him he could be taken care of for 
twenty-seven dollars a month, this including a cot in a 
room with eight other single men. After deducting a 
dollar and a half a month for his saloon-keepers, fifty 
cents for the company clergyman and a dollar for the com- 
pany doctor, fifty cents a month for wash-house privileges 
and fifty cents for a sick and accident benefit fund, he had 
fourteen dollars a month with which to clothe himself, 
to found a family, to provide himself with beer and to- 
bacco, and to patronise the libraries and colleges endowed 
by the philanthropic owners of coal mines. 
Supper was nearly over at Reminitsky's when he ar- 
rived ; the floor looked like the scene of a cannibal picnic, 
and what food was left was cold. It was always to be 
this way with him, he found, and he had to make the best 
of it. The dining-room of this boarding-house, owned and 
managed by the G. F. C, brought to his mind the state 
prison, which he had once visited — with its rows of men 
sitting in silence, eating starch and grease out of tin-plates. 
The plates here were of crockery half an inch thick, but 
the starch and grease never failed; the formula of Rem- 
initsky's cook seemed to be, When in doubt add grease, 
and boil it in. Even ravenous as Hal was after his long 
tramp and his labour below ground, he could hardly swal- 
 
low this food. On Sundays, the only time he ate by day- 
light, the flies swarmed over everything, and he remem- 
bered having heard a physician say that an enlightened 
man should be more afraid of a fly than of a Bengal tiger. 
The boarding-house provided him with a cot and a 
supply of vermin, but with no blanket, which was a neces- 
sity in the mountain regions. So after supper he had to 
seek out his boss, and arrange to get credit at the company- 
store. They were willing to give a certain amount of 
credit, he found, as this would enable the camp-marshal to 
keep him from straying. There was no law to hold a man 
for debt — but Hal knew by this time how much a camp- 
marshal cared for law. 
 For three days Hal toiled in the bowels of the 
mine, and ate and pursued vermin at Keminitsky's. 
Then came a blessed Sunday, and he had a couple of free 
hours to see the sunlight and to get a look at the North 
Valley camp. It was a village straggling along more 
than a mile of the mountain canyon. In the centre were 
the great breaker-buildings, the shaft-house, and the power- 
house with its tall chimneys; nearby were the company- 
store and a couple of saloons. There were several board- 
ing-houses like Keminitsky's, and long rows of board cabins 
containing from two to four rooms each, some of them 
occupied by several families. A little way up a slope 
stood a school-house, and another small one-room building 
which served as a church ; the clergyman belonging to the 
General Fuel Company denomination. He was given the 
use of the building, by way of start over the saloons, which 
had to pay a heavy rental to the company; it Seemed a 
proof of the innate perversity of human nature that even 
in spite of this advantage, heaven was losing out in the 
struggle against hell in the coal-camp. 
As one walked through this village, the first impression 
 
was of desolation. The mountains towered, barren and 
lonely, scarred with the wounds of geologic ages. In these 
canyons the sun set early in the afternoon, the snow came 
early in the fall; everywhere Nature's hand seemed against 
man, and man had succumbed to her power. Inside the 
camps one felt a still more cruel desolation — that of 
sordidness and animalism. There were a few pitiful at- 
tempts at vegetable-gardens, but the cinders and smoke 
killed everything, and the prevailing colour was of grime. 
The landscape was strewn with ash-heaps, old wire and 
tomato-cans, and smudged and smutty children playing. 
There was a part of the camp called " shanty-town," 
where, amid miniature mountains of slag, some of the 
lowest of the newly-arrived foreigners had been permitted 
to build themselves shacks out of old boards, tin, and 
sheets of tar-paper. These homes were beneath the dig- 
nity of chicken-houses, yet in some of them a dozen people 
were crowded, men and women sleeping on old rags and 
blankets on a cinder floor. Here the babies swarmed like 
maggots. They wore for the most part a single ragged 
smock, a^d their bare buttocks were shamelessly upturned 
to the heavens. It was so the children of the cave-men 
must have played, thought Hal; and waves of repulsion 
swept over him. He had come with love and curiosity, 
but both motives failed here. How could a man of sensi- 
tive nerves, aware of the refinements and graces of life, 
learn to love these people, who were an affront to his every 
sense — a stench to his nostrils, a jabbering to his ear, 
a procession of deformities to his eye ? What had civili- 
sation done for them? What could it do? After all, 
what were they fit for, but the dirty work they were penned 
up to do ? So spoke the haughty race-consciousness of the 
Anglo-Saxon, contemplating these Mediterranean hordes, 
the very shape of whose heads was objectionable. 
. But Hal stuck it out ; and- little by little new vision 
came to him. First of all, it was the fascination of the 
 
mines. They were old mines — veritable cities tunnelled 
out beneath the mountains, the main passages running for 
miles. One day Hal stole off from his job, and took a 
trip with a " rope-rider," and got through his physical 
senses a realisation of the vastness and strangeness and 
loneliness of this labyrinth of night. In Number Two 
mine the vein ran up at a slope of perhaps five degrees; 
in part of it the empty cars were hauled in long trains by 
an endless rope, but coming back loaded, they came of 
their own gravity. This involved much work for the 
" spraggers," or boys who did the braking ; it sometimes 
meant run-away cars, and fresh perils added to the every- 
day perils of coal-mining. ^__ 
The vein varied from four to five feet in thickness; a 
cruelty of nature which made it necessary that the men 
at the "working face" — the place where new coal was 
being cut — should learn to shorten their stature. After 
Hal had squatted for a while and watched them at their 
tasks, he understood why they walked with head and shoul- 
ders bent over and arms hanging down, so that, seeing 
them coming out of the shaft in the gloaming, one thought 
of a file of baboons. The method of getting out the coal 
was to " undercut " it with a pick, and then blow it loose 
with a charge of powder. This meant that the miner had 
to lie on his side while working, and accounted for other 
physical peculiarities. 
Thus, as always, when one understood the lives of men, 
one came to pity instead of despising. Here was a sepa- 
rate race of creatures, subterranean gnomes, pent up by so- 
ciety for purposes of its own. Outside in the sunshine- 
flooded canyon, long lines of cars rolled down with their 
freight of soft-coal ; coal which would go to the ends of the 
earth, to places the miner never heard of, turning the 
wheels of industry whose products the miner would never 
see. It would make precious silks for fine ladies, it would 
cut precious jewels for their adornment; it would carry 
 
long trains of softly upholstered cars across deserts and 
over mountains ; it would drive palatial steamships out of 
wintry tempests into gleaming tropic seas. And the fine 
ladies in their precious silks and jewels would eat and 
sleep and laugh and lie at ease — and would know no more 
of the stunted creatures of the dark than the stunted crea- 
tures knew of them, Hal reflected upon this, and sub- 
dued his Anglo-Saxon pride, finding forgiveness for what 
was repulsive in these people — their barbarous, jabbering 
speech, their vermin-ridden homes, their bare-bottomed 
babies. 
 It chanced before many days that Hal got a holi- 
day, relieving the monotony of his labours as stableman : 
an accidental holiday, not provided for in his bargain 
with the pit-boss. Something went wrong with the ven- 
tilating-course in Number Two, and he began to notice a 
headache, and heard the men grumbling that their lamps 
were burning low. Then, as matters began to get serious, 
orders came to get the mules to the surface. 
Which meant an amusing adventure. The delight of 
Hal's pets at seeing the sunlight was irresistibly comic. 
They could not be kept from lying down and rolling on 
their backs in the cinder-strewn street; and when they 
were corralled in a distant part of the camp where actual 
grass grew, they abandoned themselves to rapture like a 
horde of school children at a picnic. 
So Hal had a few free hours ; and being still young and 
not cured of idle curiosities, he climbed the canyon wall to 
see the mountains. As he was sliding down again, toward 
evening, a vivid spot of colour was painted into his picture 
of mine-life ; he found himself in somebody's back yard, 
and being observed by somebody's daughter, who was tak- 
ing in the family wash. It was a splendid figure of a lass,. 
tall and vigorous, with the sort of hair that in polite 
 
circles is called auburn, and that flaming colour in the 
cheeks which is Nature's recompense to people who live 
where it rains all the time. She was the first beautiful 
sight Hal had seen since he had come up the canyon, and 
it was only natural that he should be interested. It seemed 
to him that, so long as the girl stared, he had a right to 
stare back. It did not occur to him that he too was a 
pleasing sight — that the mountain air had given colour 
to his cheeks and a shine to his gay brown eyes, while 
the mountain winds had blown his wavy brown hair. 
"Hello," said she, at last, in a warm voice, unmis- 
takably Irish. 
"Hello yourself," said Hal, in the accepted dialect; 
then he added, with more elegance, " Pardon me for tres- 
passing on your wash." 
Her grey eyes opened wider. " Go on ! " she said. 
"I'd rather stay," said Hal. "It's a beautiful sun- 
set." 
" I'll move, so ye can see it better." She carried her 
armful of clothes over and dropped them into the basket. 
" No," said Hal, " it's not so fine now. The colours 
have faded." 
She turned and gazed at him again. "Go on wid 
ye ! I been teased about my hair since Jbef ore I could 
talk." 
" 'Tis envy," said Hal, dropping into her way of speech ; 
and he came a few steps nearer, so that he could inspect 
the hair more closely. It lay above her brow in undula- 
tions which were agreeable to the decorative instinct, and 
a tight heavy braid of it fell over her shoulders and swung 
to her waist-line. He observed the shoulders, which were 
sturdy, obviously accustomed to hard labour ; not conform- 
ing to accepted romantic standards of femininity, yet 
having an athletic grace of their own. They were cov- 
ered with a faded blue calico dress, unfortunately not 
entirely clean; also, the young man noticed, there was 
 
a rent in one shoulder through which a patch of skin was 
visible. The girl's eyes, which had been following his, 
became defiant; she tossed a piece of her washing over 
the shoulder, where it stayed through the balance of the 
interview. 
" Who are ye ? " she demanded, suddenly. 
" My name's Joe Smith. I'm a stableman in Number 
Two." 
" And what were ye doin' up there, if a body might 
ask?" She lifted her grey eyes to the bare mountain- 
side, down which he had come sliding in a shower of loose 
stones and dirt. . 
" Fve been surveying my empire," said he. 
" Your what ? " 
"My empire. The land belongs to the company, but 
the landscape belongs to him who cares for it." 
She tossed her head a little. " Where did ye learn to 
talk like ye do?" 
" In another life," said he — " before I became a stable- 
man. Not in entire forgetfulness, but trailing clouds of 
glory did I come." 
For a moment she wrestled with this. Then a smile 
broke upon her face. " Sure, 'tis like a poetry-book ! 
Say some more ! " 
" O, singe fort, so suess und fein ! " quoted Hal — and 
saw' her look puzzled. 
" Aren't you American ? " she inquired ; and he laughed. 
To speak a foreign language in North Valley was not a 
mark of culture! 
" I've been listening to the crowd at Eeminitsky's," he 
said, apologetically. 
" Oh ! You eat there ? " 
 " I go there three times a day. I can't say I eat very 
much. Could you live on greasy beans ? " 
"Sure," laughed the girl, "the good old pertaties is 
good enough for me." 
 
" I should have said you lived on rose leaves ! " he ob- 
served. 
" Go on wid ye ! 'Tis the blarney-stone ye been 
kissin' ! " 
" 'Tis no stone I'd be wastin' my kisses on." 
"Ye're gettin' bold, Mister Smith. I'll not listen to 
ye." And she turned away, and began industriously tak- 
ing her clothes from the line. But Hal did not want to 
be dismissed. He came a step closer. 
" Coming down the mountain-side," he said, " I found ' 
something wonderful. It's bare and grim up there, but 
I came on a sheltered corner where the sun shone, and 
there was a wild rose. Only one ! I thought to myself, 
' So roses grow, even in the loneliest parts of the world I ' " 
" Sure, 'tis a poetry-book again ! " she cried. " Why 
didn't ye bring the rose ? " 
" There is a poetry-book that tells us to ' leave the wild- 
rose on its stalk.' It will go on blooming there; but if 
one were to pluck it, it would wither in a few hours." 
He had meant nothing more by this than to keep the 
conversation going. But her answer turned the tide of 
their acquaintance. 
" Ye can never be sure, lad. Perhaps to-night a storm 
may come and blow it to pieces. Perhaps if ye'd pulled 
it and been happy, 'twould 'a' been what the rose was 
for." 
Whatever of unconscious patronage there had been in 
the poet's attitude was lost now in the eternal mystery. 
Whether the girl knew it — or cared — she had won the 
woman's first victory. She had caught the man's mind 
and pinned it with curiosity. What did this wild rose 
of the mining camps mean ? 
The wild rose, apparently unconscious that she had 
said anything epoch-making, was busy with the wash ; and 
meantime Hal Warner studied her features and pondered 
her words. From a lady of sophistication they would 
 
have meant only one thing, an invitation ; but in this girl's 
clear grey eyes was nothing of wantonness, only pain. 
But what was this pain in the face and words of one so 
young, so eager and alive? Was it the melancholy of 
her race, the thing one got in old folk-songs ? Or was it 
a new and special kind of melancholy, engendered in min- 
ing-camps in the far West of America ? 
The girl's countenance was as intriguing as her words. 
Her grey eyes were set under sharply defined dark brows, 
which did not match her hair. Her lips also were sharply 
defined, and straight, almost without curves, so that it 
seemed as if her mouth had been painted in carmine upon 
her face. These features gave her, when she stared at 
you, an aspect vivid and startling, bold, with a touch of 
defiance. But when she smiled, the red lips would curve 
into gentler lines, and the grey eyes would become wist- 
ful, and seemingly darker in colour. Winsome indeed, 
but not simple, was this Irish lass ! 
 Hal asked the name of his new acquaintance, and 
she told him it was Mary Burke. " Ye've not been here 
long, I take it," she said, " or ye'd have heard of ' lied 
Mary.' 'Tis along of this hair." 
" I've not been here long," he answered, " but I shall 
hope to stay now — along of this hair ! May I come to 
see you some time, Miss Burke i " 
She did not reply, but glanced at the house where she 
lived. It was an unpainted, three room cabin, more 
dilapidated than the average, with bare dirt and cinder-; 
about it, and what had once been a picket-fence, now fall- 
ing apart and being used for stove-wood. The window?, 
were cracked and broken, and upon the roof were signs of 
leaks that had been crudely patched. 
" May I come ? " he made haste to ask again — so that 
he would not seem to look too criticallv at her home. 
 
" Perhaps ye may," said the girl, as she picked up the 
clothes basket. He stepped forward, offering to carry it, 
but she did not give it up. Holding it tight, and looking 
him defiantly in the face, she said, " Ye may come, but 
ye'll not find it a happy place to visit, Mr. Smith. Ye , ll 
hear soon enough from the neighbours." 
" I don't think I know any of your neighbours," said he. 
There was sympathy in his voice; but her look was no 
less defiant. " Ye'll hear about it, Mr. Smith ; but ye'll 
hear also that I hold me head up. And 'tis not so easy 
to do that in North Valley." 
"You don't like the place?" he asked; and he was 
amazed by the effect of this question, which was merely 
polite. It was as if a storm cloud had swept over the 
girl's face. " I hate it ! 'Tis a place of fear and devils ! " 
He hesitated a moment ; then, " Will you tell me what 
you mean by that when I come ? " 
But "Ked Mary" was winsome again. "When ye 
come, Mr. Smith, I'll not be entertaining ye with troubles. 
I'll put on me company manner, and we'll go out for a 
nice walk, if ye please." 
All the way as he walked back to Reminitsky's to sup- 
per, Hal thought about this girl ; not merely her pleasant- 
ness to the eye, so unexpected in this place of desolation, 
but her personality, which baffled him — the pain that 
seemed always just beneath the surface of her thoughts, 
the fierce pride which flashed out at the slightest sugges- 
tion of sympathy, the way she had of brightening when 
he spoke the language of metaphor, however trite. How 
had she come to know about poetry-books? He wanted 
to know more about this miracle of Nature — this wild 
rose blooming on a bare mountain-side ! 
 There was one of Mary Burke's remarks upon 
which Hal soon got light — her statement that North 
 
Valley was a place of fear. He listened to the tales of 
these underworld men, until it came so that he shuddered 
with dread each time that he went down in the cage. 
There was a wire-haired and almond eyed Korean, 
named Cho, a "rope-rider" in Hal's part of the mine. 
He was one of those who had charge of the long trains 
of cars, called "trips," which were hauled through the 
main passage-ways ; the name " rope-rider " came from 
the fact that he sat on the heavy iron ring to which the 
rope was attached. He invited Hal to a seat with him, 
and Hal accepted, at peril of his job as well as of his 
limbs. Cho had picked up what he fondly thought was 
English, and now and then one could understand a word. 
He pointed upon the ground, and shouted above the rattle 
of the cars : " Big dust ! " Hal saw that the ground 
was covered with six inches of coal-dust, while on the old 
disused walls one could write his name in it. " Much 
blow-up ! " said the rope-rider ; and when the last empty 
cars had been shunted off into the working-rooms, and he 
was waiting to make up a return " trip," he laboured 
with gestures to explain what he meant. " Load cars. 
Bang! Bust like hell!" 
Hal knew that the mountain air in this region was fa- 
mous for its dryness; he learned now that the quality 
which meant life to invalids from every part of the world 
meant death to those who toiled to keep the invalids warm. 
Driven through the mines by great fans, this air took out 
every particle of moisture, and left coal dust so thick and 
dry that there were fatal explosions from the mere friction 
of loading-shovels. So it happened that these mines were 
killing several times as many men as other mines through- 
out the country. 
Was there no remedy for this, Hal asked, talking with 
one of his mule-drivers, Tim Eafferty, the evening after 
his ride with Cho. There was a remedy, said Tim — the 
law required sprinkling the mines with "adobe-dust"; 
 
and once in Tim's life, he remembered this law's being 
obeyed. There had come some " big fellows " inspecting 
things, and previous to their visit there had been an elabo- 
rate campaign of sprinkling. But that had been several 
years ago, and now the apparatus was stored away, nobody 
knew where, and one heard nothing about sprinkling. 
It was the same with precautions against gas. The 
North Valley mines were especially " gassy," it appeared. 
In these old rambling passages one smelt a stink as of all 
the rotten eggs in all the barn-yards of the world ; and this 
sulphuretted hydrogen was the least dangerous of the gases 
against which a miner had to contend. There was the 
dreaded " choke-damp," which was odourless, and heavier 
than air. Striking into soft, greasy coal, one would open 
a pocket of this gas, a deposit laid up for countless ages, 
awaiting its predestined victim. A man might sink to 
sleep as he lay at work, and if his " buddy," or helper, 
happened to be out of sight, and to delay a minute too 
long, it would be all over with the man. And there was 
the still more dreaded " fire-damp," which might wreck a 
whole mine, and kill scores and even hundreds of men. 
Against these dangers there was a " fire-boss," whose 
duty was to go through the mine, testing for gas, and mak- 
ing sure that the ventilating-course was in order, and the 
fans working properly. The " fire-boss " was supposed 
to make his rounds in the early morning, and the law 
specified that no one should go to work till he had certi- 
fied that all was safe. But what if the " fire-boss " over- 
slept himself, or happened to be drunk ? It was too much 
to expect thousands of dollars to be lost for such a reason. 
So sometimes one saw men ordered to their work, and 
sent down grumbling and cursing. Before many hours 
some of them would be prostrated with headache, and 
begging to be taken out; and perhaps the superintendent 
would not let them out, because if a few came, the rest 
would get scared and want to come also. 
 
Once, only last year, there had been an accident of that 
sort. A young mule-driver, a Croatian, told Hal about 
it while they sat munching the contents of their dinner- 
pails. The first cage-load of men had gone down into the 
mine, sullenly protesting; and soon afterwards some one 
had taken down a naked light, and there had been an 
explosion which had sounded like the blowing up of the 
inside of the world. Eight men had been killed, the force 
of the explosion being so great that some of the bodies 
had been wedged between the shaft wall and the cage, and 
it had been necessary to cut them to pieces to get them 
out. It was them Japs that were to blame, vowed Hal's 
informant. They hadn't ought to turn them loose in coal 
mines, for the devil himself couldn't keep a Jap from 
sneaking off to get a smoke. 
So Hal understood how North Valley was a place of 
fear. What tales the old chambers of these mines could 
have told, if they had had voices! Hal watched the 
throngs pouring in to their labours, and reflected that 
according to the statisticians of the government eight or 
nine of every thousand of them were destined to die violent 
deaths before a year was out, and some thirty more would 
be badly injured. And they knew this, they knew it bet- 
ter than all the statisticians of the government ; yet they 
went to their tasks! Reflecting upon this, Hal was full 
of wonder. What was the force that kept men at such 
a task ? Was it a sense of duty ? Did they understand 
that society had to have coal and that some one had to do 
the " dirty work " of providing it ? Did they have a vision 
of a future, great and wonderful, which was to grow out 
of their ill-requited toil ? Or were they simply fools or 
cowards, submitting blindly, because they had not the wit 
nor the will to do otherwise? Curiosity held him, he 
wanted to understand the inner souls of these silent and 
patient armies which through the ages have surrendered 
their lives to other men's control. 
 
 Hal was coming to know these people ; to see 
them no longer as a mass, to be despised or pitied in bulk, 
but as individuals, with individual temperaments and 
problems, exactly like people in the world of the sunlight. 
Mary Burke and Tim Rafferty, Cho the Korean and 
Madvik the Croatian — one by one these individualities 
etched themselves into the foreground of Hal's picture, 
making it a thing of life, moving him to sympathy and 
fellowship. Some of these people, to be sure, were 
stunted and dulled to a sordid ugliness of soul and body — 
but on the other hand, some of them were young, and had 
the light of hope in their hearts, and the splrk of re- 
bellion. t 
There was " Andy," a boy of Greek parentage ; Arf 
drokulos was his right name — but it was too much to 
expect any one to get that straight in a coal-camp. Hal 
noticed him at the store, and was struck by his beautiful 
features, and the mournful look in his big black eygs. 
They got to talking, and Andy made the discovery that 
Hal had not spent all his time in coal-camps, but had seen 
the great world. It was pitiful, the excitement that came 
into his voice ; he was yearning for life, with its joys and 
adventures — and it was his destiny to sit ten hours a 
day by the side of a chute, with the rattle of coal in his 
,ears and the dust of coal in his nostrils, picking out slate 
' with his fingers. He was one of many scores of " breaker- * 
boys." 
" Why don't you go away ? " asked Hal. 
" Christ ! How I get away ? Got mother, two sisters." 
" And your father ? " So Hal made the discovery that 
Andy's father had been one of those men whose bodies 
had had to be cut to pieces to get them out of the shaft. 
Now the son was chained to the father's place, until his 
time too should come ! 
" Don't want to be miner ! " cried the boy. " Don't 
want to get killed! " 
 
He began to ask, timidly, what Hal thought he could do 
if he were to run away from his family and try his luck 
in the world outside. Hal, striving to remember where 
he had seen olive-skinned Greeks with big black eyes in 
