exercise and had at once found Vinty full of re- 
source for his taking it in that pleasantest way. 
Everything, by his assurance, was going to be 
delightful but the generality of the people; thus, 
accordingly, was the generality of the people not 
yet in evidence, thus at the sweet hour following 
the cool dawn could the world he had become 
possessed of spread about him unspoiled. 
It was perhaps in Gray to wonder a little in 
these conditions what was then in evidence, with 
decks so invidiously cleared; this being, however, 
a remark he forbore to make, mystified as he 
had several times been, and somehow didn't like 
too much being, by having had to note that to 
differ at all from Vinty on occasions apparently 
offered was to provoke in him at once a positive 
excess of agreement. He always went further, 
as it were, and Gray himself, as he might say, 
 
didn't want to go those lengths, which were out 
of the range of practical politics altogether. Hor- 
ton's habit, as it seemed to show itself, was to 
make out of saving sociability or wanton in- 
genuity or whatever, a distinction for which a 
companion might care, but for which he himself 
didn't with any sincerity, and then to give his 
own side of it away, from the moment doubt 
had been determined, with an almost desolating 
sweep of surrender. His own side of it was by 
that logic no better a side, in a beastly vulgar 
world, than any other, and if anyone wanted to 
mean that such a mundane basis was deficient 
why he himself had but meant it from the first 
and pretended something else only not to be too 
shocking. He was ready to mean the worst — 
was ready for anything, that is, in the interest 
of ceasing from humbug. And if Gray was pre- 
pared for that then il ne s'agissait que de s'enten- 
dre. What Gray was prepared for would really 
take, this young man frankly opined, some thresh- 
ing out; but it wasn't at all in readiness for the 
worst that he had come to America — he had 
come on the contrary to indulge, by God's help, 
in appreciations, comparisons, observations, re- 
flections and other luxuries, that were to minister, 
fond old prejudice aiding, to life at the high pitch, 
the pitch, as who should say, of immortality. 
If on occasion, under the dazzle of Horton's 
facility, he might ask himself how he tracked 
 
through it the silver thread of sincerity — con- 
sistency" wasn't pretended to — something at once 
supervened that was better than any answer, 
some benefit of information that the circumstance 
required, of judgment that assisted or supported 
or even amused, by felicity of contradiction  and 
that above all pushed the question so much further, 
multiplying its relations and so giving it air and 
colour and the slap of the brush, that it straight- 
way became a picture and, for the kind of atten- 
tion Gray could best render, a conclusive settled 
matter. He hated somehow to detract from his 
friend, wanting so much more to keep adding to 
him; but it was after a little as if he had felt 
that his loyalty, or whatever he might call it, 
could yet not be mean in deciding that Horton's 
generalisations, his opinions as distinguished from 
his perceptions and direct energies and images, 
signified little enough: if he would only go on 
bristling as he promised with instances and items, 
would only consent to consist at the same rate 
and in his very self of material for history, one 
might propose to gather from it all at one's own 
hours and without troubling him the occasional 
big inference. 
How good he could be on the particular case 
appeared for example after Gray had expressed 
to him, just subsequently to their first encounter, 
a certain light ' and measured wonderment at 
Rosanna Gaw's appearing not to intend to ab- 
 
sent herself long enough from her cares in the 
other State, immense though these conceivably 
were, to do what the rest of them were doing 
roundabout Mr. Betterman's grave. Our young 
man had half taken for granted that she would 
have liked, expressing it simply, to assist with 
him at the last attentions to a memory that had 
meant, in the current phrase, so much for them 
both — though of course he withal quite remem- 
bered that her interest in it had but rested on 
his own and that since his own, as promoted by 
her, had now taken such effect there was gross- 
ness perhaps in looking to her for further demon- 
strations: this at least in view of her being un- 
der her filial stress not unimaginably sated with 
ritual. He had caught himself at any rate in 
the act of dreaming that Rosanna's return for 
the funeral would be one of the inevitabilities of 
her sympathy with his fortune — every element 
of which (that was overwhelmingly certain) he 
owed to her; and even the due sense that, put 
her jubilation or whatever at its highest, it could 
scarce be expected to dance the same jig as his, 
didn't prevent his remarking to his friend that 
clearly Miss Gaw would come, since he himself 
was still in the stage of supposing that when you 
had the consciousness of a lot of money you sort 
of did violent things. He played with the idea 
that her arrival for the interment would partake 
of this element, proceeding as it might from the 
 
exhilaration of her monstrous advantages, her 
now assured state. "Look at the violent things 
I'm doing," he seemed to observe with this, "and 
see how natural I must feel it that any violence 
should meet me. Yours, for example" — Gray 
really went so far — "recognises how I want, or 
at least how I enjoy, a harmony; though at the 
same time, I assure you, I'm already prepared 
for any disgusted snub to the attitude of unlimited 
concern about me, gracious goodness, that I may 
seem to go about taking for granted." Unlimited 
concern about him on the part of the people who 
weren't up at the cool of dawn save in so far as 
they here and there hadn't yet gone to bed — 
this, in combination with something like it on 
the part of numberless others too, had indeed 
to be faced as the inveterate essence of Vinty's 
forecast, and formed perhaps the hardest nut 
handed to Gray's vice of cogitation to crack; it 
was the thing that he just now most found him- 
self, as they said, up against — involving as it 
did some conception of reasons other than ugly 
for so much patience with the boring side of him. 
An interest founded on the mere beastly fact 
of his pecuniary luck, what was that but an ugly 
thing to see, from the moment his circle, since a 
circle he was apparently to have, shouldn't soon 
be moved to some decent reaction from it ? How 
was he going himself to like breathing an air in 
which the reaction didn't break out, how was he 
 
going not to get sick of finding so large a part 
played, over the place, by the mere constatation, 
in a single voice, a huge monotone restlessly and 
untiringly directed, but otherwise without appli- 
cation, of the state of being worth dollars to in- 
ordinate amounts ? Was he really going to want 
to live with many specimens of the sort of person 
who wouldn't presently rather loathe him than 
know him blindedly on such terms ? would it 
be possible, for that matter, that he should feel 
people unashamed of not providing for their at- 
tention to him any better account of it than his 
uncle's form of it had happened to supply, with- 
out his by that token coming to regard them either 
as very "interested," according to the good old 
word, or as themselves much too foredoomed 
bores to merit tolerance ? When it reached the 
pitch of his asking himself whether it could be 
possible Vinty wouldn't at once see what he 
meant by that reservation, he patched the ques- 
tion up but a bit provisionally perhaps by falling 
back on a remark about this confidant that was 
almost always equally in order. They weren't 
on the basis yet of any treatable reality, any that 
could be directly handled and measured, other 
than such as were, so to speak, the very children 
of accident, those the old man's still unexplained 
whim had with its own special shade of grimness 
let him in for. Naturally must it come to pass 
with time that the better of the set among whom 
 
this easy genius was the best would stop thinking 
money about him to the point that prevented 
their thinking anything else — so that he should 
only break off and not go in further after giving 
them a chance to show in a less flurried way to 
what their range of imagination might reach in- 
vited and encouraged. Should they markedly 
fail to take that chance it would be all up with 
them so far as any entertainment that he should 
care to offer them was concerned. How could 
it stick out more disconcertingly — so his appeal 
might have run — that a fuss about him was as 
yet absolutely a fuss on a vulgar basis ? having 
begun, by what he gathered, quite before the 
growth even of such independent rumours as 
Horton's testimony, once he was on the spot, 
or as Mr. Bradham's range of anecdote, conse- 
quent on Mr. Bradham's call, might give warrant 
for: it couldn't have behind it, he felt sure, so 
much as a word of Rosanna's, of the heralding 
or promising sort — he would so have staked his 
right hand on the last impossibility of the least 
rash overflow on that young woman's part. 
There was this other young woman,' of course, 
whom he heard of at these hours for the first time 
from Haughty and whom he remembered well 
enough to have heard praise of from his adopted 
father, three or four years previous, on his re- 
joining the dear man after a summer's separa- 
tion. She would be, "Gussy's" charming friend, 
 
Haughty's charming friend, no end of other 
people's charming friend, as appeared, the hero- 
ine of the charming friendship his own admirable 
friend had formed, in a characteristically head- 
long manner (some exceptional cluster of graces, 
in her case, clearly much aiding) with a young 
American girl, the very nicest anyone had ever 
seen, met at the waters of Ragatz during one of 
several seasons there and afterwards described 
in such extravagant terms as were to make her 
remain, between himself and his elder, a subject 
of humorous reference and retort. It had had to 
do with Gray's liking his companion of those 
years always better and better that persons in- 
trinsically distinguished inveterately took to him 
so naturally — even if the number of the admirers 
rallying was kept down a little by the rarity, of 
course, of intrinsic distinction. It wasn't, either, 
as if this blest associate had been by constitution 
an elderly flirt, or some such sorry type, addicted 
to vain philanderings with young persons he 
might have fathered: he liked young persons, 
small blame to him, but they had never, under 
Gray's observation, made a fool of him, and he 
was only as much of one about the young lady 
in question, Cecilia Foy, yes, of New York, as 
served to keep all later inquiry and pleasantry 
at the proper satiric pitch. She would have been 
a fine little creature, by our friend's beguiled 
conclusion, to have at once so quickened and 
 
so appreciated the accidental relation; for was 
anything truly quite so charming in a clever girl 
as the capacity for admiring disinterestedly a 
brave gentleman even to the point of willingness 
to take every trouble about him ? — when the dis- 
interestedness dwelt, that is, in the very pleasure 
she could seek and find, so much more creditable 
a matter to her than any she could give and be 
complimented for giving, involved as this could 
be with whatever vanity, vulgarity or other per- 
sonal pretence. 
Gray remembered even his not having missed 
by any measure of his own need or play of his 
own curiosity the gain of Miss Foy's acquaintance 
— so might the felicity of the quaint affair, given 
the actual parties, have been too sacred to be 
breathed on; he in fact recalled, and could still 
recall, every aspect of their so excellent time 
together reviving now in a thick rich light, how 
he had inwardly closed down the cover on his 
stepfather's accession of fortune — which the pretty 
episode really seemed to amount to; extracting 
from it himself a particular relief of conscience. 
He could let him alone, by this showing, without 
black cruelty — so little had the day come for his 
ceasing to attract admirers, as they said, at pub- 
lic places or being handed over to the sense of 
desertion. That left Gray as little as possible 
haunted with the young Cecilia's image, so com- 
pletely was his interest in her, in her photograph 
 
and in her letters, one of the incidents of his vir- 
tually filial solicitude; all the less in fact no 
doubt that she had written during the aftermonths 
frequently and very advertisedly, though perhaps, 
in spite of Mr. Northover's gay exhibition of it, 
not so very remarkably. She was apparently one 
of the bright persons who are not at their bright- 
est with the pen — which question indeed would 
perhaps come to the proof for him, thanks to his 
having it ever so vividly, not to say derisively, 
from Horton that this observer didn't really know 
what had stayed her hand, for the past week, 
from an outpouring to the one person within her 
reach who would constitute a link with the de- 
lightful old hero of her European adventure. That 
so close a representative of the party to her ro- 
mance was there in the flesh and but a mile or 
two off, was a fact so extraordinary as to have 
waked up the romance again in her and produced 
a state of fancy from which she couldn't rest — 
for some shred of the story that might be still 
afloat. Gray therefore needn't be surprised to 
receive some sign of this commotion, and that 
he hadn't yet done so was to be explained, Haughty 
guessed, by the very intensity of the passions 
involved. 
One of them, it thus appeared, burnt also in 
Gussy's breast; devoted as she was to Cissy, she 
had taken the fond anecdote that so occupied 
them as much under her protection as she had 
 
from far back taken the girl's every other in- 
terest, and what for the hour paralysed their 
action, that of the excited pair, must simply 
have been that Mrs. Bradham couldn't on the 
one hand listen to anything so horrid as that 
her young friend should make an advance un- 
prepared and unaccompanied, and that the ar- 
dent girl, on the other, had for the occasion, as 
for all occasions, her ideal of independence. Gray 
was not himself impatient — he felt no jump in 
him at the chance to discuss so dear a memory 
in an air still incongruous; it depended on who 
might propose to him the delicate business, let 
alone its not making for a view of the great Gussy's 
fine tact that she should even possibly put herself 
forward as a proposer. However, he didn't mind 
thinking that if Cissy should prove all that was 
likely enough their having a subject in common 
couldn't but practically conduce; though the 
moral of it all amounted rather to a portent, the 
one that Haughty, by the same token, had done 
least to reassure him against, of the extent to 
which the native jungle harboured the female 
specimen and to which its ostensible cover, the 
vast level of mixed growths stirred wavingly in 
whatever breeze, was apt to be identifiable but 
as an agitation of the latest redundant thing in 
ladies' hats. It was true that when Rosanna had 
perfectly failed to rally, merely writing a kind 
short note to the effect that she should have to 
 
give herself wholly, for she didn't know how 
long, to the huge assault of her own questions, 
that might have seemed to him to make such a 
clearance as would count against any number 
of positively hovering shades. Horton had an- 
swered for her not turning up, and nothing per- 
haps had made him feel so right as this did for 
a faith in those general undertakings of assurance; 
only, when at the end of some days he saw that 
vessel of light obscured by its swing back to New 
York and other ranges of action, the sense of ex- 
posure — even as exposure to nothing worse than 
the lurking or pouncing ladies — became sharper 
through contrast with the late guarded interval; 
this to the extent positively of a particular hour 
at which it seemed to him he had better turn 
tail and simply flee, stepping from under the too 
vast orb of his fate. 
He was alone with that quantity on the Sep- 
tember morning after breakfast as he had not 
felt himself up to now; he had taken to pacing 
the great verandah that had become his own as 
he had paced it when it was still his uncle's, and 
it might truly have been a rush of nervous appre- 
hension, a sudden determination of terror, that 
quickened and yet somehow refused to direct his 
steps. He had turned out there for the company 
of sea and sky and garden, less conscious than 
within doors, for some reason, that Horton was 
a lost luxury; but that impression was presently 
, 
 
to pass with a return of a queer force in his view 
of Rosanna as above all somehow wanting, off 
and withdrawn verily to the pitch of her having 
played him some trick, merely let him in where 
she was to have seen him through, failed in fine 
of a sociability implied in all her preliminaries. 
He found his attention caught, in one of his revo- 
lutions, by the chair in which Abel Gaw had sat 
that first afternoon, pulling him up for their so 
unexpectedly intense mutual scrutiny, and when 
he turned away a moment after, quitting the 
spot almost as if the strange little man's death 
that very night had already made him appari- 
tional, which was unpleasant, it was to drop upon 
the lawn and renew his motion there. He circled 
round the house altogether at last, looking at it 
more critically than had hitherto seemed relevant, 
taking the measure, disconcertedly, of its un- 
abashed ugliness, and at the end coming to regard 
it very much as he might have eyed some mon- 
strous modern machine, one of those his generation 
was going to be expected to master, to fly in, to 
fight in, to take the terrible women of the future 
out for airings in, and that mocked at his incom- 
petence in such matters while he walked round 
and round it and gave it, as for dread of what it 
might do to him, the widest berth his enclosure 
allowed. In the midst of all of whujh, quite won- 
derfully, everything changed; he wasn't alone 
with his monster, he was inj by this reminder, 
 
for connections, nervous ass as he had just missed 
writing himself, and connections fairly glittered, 
swarming out at him, in the person of Mr. Brad- 
ham, who stood at the top of a flight of steps from 
the gallery, which he had been ushered through 
the house to reach, and there at once, by some 
odd felicity of friendliness, some pertinence of 
presence, of promise, appeared to make up for 
whatever was wrong and supply whatever was 
absent. It came over him with extraordinary 
quickness that the way not to fear the massed 
ambiguity was to trust it, and this florid, solid, 
smiling person, who waved a prodigious gold- 
coloured straw hat as if in sign of ancient amity, 
had come exactly at that moment to show him 
how. 1 
1 This ends the first chapter of Book IV. The MS. breaks off with 
an unfinished sentence opening the next chapter: "Not the least 
pointed of the reflections Gray was to indulge in a fortnight later 
and as by a result of Davey Bradham's intervention in the very 
nick was that if he had turned tail that afternoon, at the very oddest 
of all his hours, if he had prematurely taken to his heels and missed 
the emissary from the wonderful place of his fresh domestication, 
the article on which he would most irretrievably have dished him- 
self . . ." 
NOTES FOR 
 
NOTES FOR  
Augusta Bradham, "Gussie" Bradham, for the 
big social woman. Basil Hunn I think on the 
whole for Hero. Graham Rising, which becomes 
familiarly Gray Rising, I have considered but 
incline to keep for another occasion. 
Horton Crimper, among his friends Haughty 
Crimper, seems to me right and best, on the 
whole, for my second young man. I don't want 
for him a surname intrinsically pleasing; and 
this seems to me of about the good nuance. My 
Third Man hereby becomes, I seem to see, Davey 
Bradham; on which, I think, for the purpose and 
association, I can't improve. 
My Girl, in the relinquished thing, was Cissy 
Foy; and this was all right for the figure there 
intended, but the girl here is a very different 
one, and everything is altered. I want her name 
moreover, her Christian one, to be Moyra, and 
must have some bright combination with that; 
the essence of which is a surname of two syllables 
and ending in a consonant — also beginning with 
one. I am thinking of Moyra Grabham, the 
latter excellent thing was in the Times of two or 
three days ago; its only fault is a little too much 
meaning, but the sense here wouldn't be thrown 
 
into undue relief, and I don't want anything 
pretty or conventionally "pleasing." Everything 
of the shade of the real. Remain thus important 
the big, the heavy Daughter of the billionaire, 
with her father; in connection with whom I 
think I give up Betterman. That must stand 
over, and I want, above all, a single syllable. 
All the other names have two or three; and this 
makes an objection to the Shimple, which I orig- 
inally thought of as about odd and ugly enough 
without being more so than I want it. But that 
also will keep, while I see that I have the mono- 
syllable Hench put down; only put down for 
another connection. I see I thought of "Wenty " 
Hench, short for Wentworth, as originally good 
for Second Young Man. If I balance that against 
Haughty Crimper, I incline still to the latter, 
for the small amusement of the Haughty. On 
the other hand I am not content with Hench, 
though a monosyllable, for the dear Billionaire 
girl, in the light of whom it is alone important 
to consider the question, her Father so little 
mattering after she becomes by his death the 
great Heiress of the time. And I kind of want 
to make her Moyra; with which I just spy in 
the Times a wonderful and admirable "Chown"; 
which makes me think that Moyra Chown may 
do. Besides which if I- keep Grabham for my 
"heroine" I feel the Christian name should there 
be of one syllable. All my others are of two; 
 
and I shall presently make the case right for this, 
finding the good thing. The above provides for 
the time for the essential. Yet suddenly I am 
pulled up — Grabham, after all, won't at all do 
if I keep Bradham for the other connection; 
which I distinctly prefer: I want nothing with 
any shade of a special sense there. Accordingly, 
I don't know but what I may go in for a different 
note altogether and lavish on her the fine Can- 
tupher; which I don't want however really to 
waste. When Cantupher is used there ought to 
be several of it, and above all men : no, I see it 
won't do, and besides I don't want anything 
positively fine. I like Wither, and I like Augurer, 
and I like, in another note, Damper, and I even 
see a little Bessie as a combination with it, though 
I don't on the whole want a Bessie. At any rate 
I now get on. 
1 What I want the first Book to do is to present 
the Gaws, the Bradhams and Cissy Foy, in Three 
Chapters or Scenes, call them Scenes of the Acts, 
in such a way that I thus present with them the 
first immediate facts involved; or in other words 
present the first essence of the Situation. What 
I see is, as I further reflect, that it is better to 
get Graham Fielder there within the Act, to have 
him on the premises already, and learnt so to be, 
1 From this point the names of the characters, most of which were 
still uncertain, are given in accordance with Henry James' final 
choice; though it may be noted that he was to the end dissatisfied 
with the name of Cissy Foy and meant to choose another. 
 
before it has progressed beyond the first Scene  
though he be not seen' till the Second Book. 
When Rosanna goes over to her Father it befals 
before she has had more than twenty words with 
him that one of the Nurses who is most sympa- 
thetic to her appears in the long window that 
opens from the house on to the verandah, and it 
is thus at once disclosed that he has come. Ro- 
sanna has taken for granted from the quiet air 
of the place that this event hasn't yet occurred; 
but Gray has in fact arrived with the early morn- 
ing, has come on the boat from New York, the 
night one, and is there above with, or ready to 
be with, the dying man. Perfectly natural and 
plausible I make it that he doesn't begin at once 
to pervade the place; delicacy, discretion, anxiety 
naturally operating with him; so that we know 
only he is there, and that matters are more or less 
taking place above, during the rest of the Book. 
But the fact in question immediately determines, 
for proprieties' and discretions' sake, the with- 
drawal of Rosanna and her Father; they return 
to their own abode; and I see the rest of the busi- 
ness of the act as taking place partly there and 
partly, by what I make but, on the Bradhams' 
own premises, the field of the Third Scene. Here 
is the passage between the two young women 
that I require, and my Heroine, I think, must be 
on a visit of a number of days to Gussie. I want 
Davey first with Rosanna, and think I get some- 
 
thing like his having walked over, along the cliff, 
to their house, to bring her, at his wife's request, 
over to tea. Yes, I have Davey's walk back 
with Rosanna, and her Father's declining to come, 
or saying that he will follow afterward; his real 
design being to sneak over again, as I may call 
it, to the other house, in the exercise of his in- 
tense curiosity. That special founded and mo- 
tived condition is what we sufficiently know him 
by and what he is for the time (which is all the 
time we have of him) identified by. I get thus 
for Book 2 that Gray, latish in the afternoon, 
coming down from his uncle's quarter, finds him, 
has a passage or scene with him, above all an im- 
pression of him; and this before he has had any 
other: we learn that he hasn't seen his uncle yet; 
the judgment of the doctors about this being 
operative and they wishing a further wait. I 
want Rosanna's Father for his first very sharp 
impression; this really making, I think, Scene 
First of Book 2. It gives me Scene 2 for what 
I shall then want without further delay of his 
first introduction to his Uncle's room and his 
half hour, or whatever, there; with the fact de- 
termined of the non-collapse of the latter, his 
good effect from the meeting quite rather, and 
the duration of him determined to end of Book 2. 
After Book 2 he is no more. Scene 3 of Book 2 
then can only be, for Gray, with Rosanna; that 
scene having functions to be exercised with no 
 
more delay at all, by what I make out, and being 
put in, straight, then and there, that we may 
have the support of it. I by the same token see 
Book 3 now as functional entirely for the en- 
counter of Gray with the two other women and, 
for the first time, with Davey; and also as pre- 
paring the appearance of Horton Vint, though not 
producing it. I see him, in fact, I think, as intro- 
duced independently of his first appearance to 
Gray, see it as a matter of his relation with Cissy, 
and as lighting up what I immediately want of 
their situation. In fact don't I see this as Hor- 
ton's "Act" altogether, as I shall have seen and 
treated Book i as Rosanna's, and Book 2 as 
Gray's. By the blest operation this time of my 
Dramatic principle, my law of successive Aspects, 
each treated from its own centre, as, though with 
qualifications, The Awkward Age, I have the 
great help of flexibility and variety; my persons 
in turn, or at least the three or four foremost, 
having control, as it were, of the Act and Aspect, 
and so making it his or making it hers. This of 
course with the great inevitable and desirable 
preponderance, in the Series, of Gray's particular 
weight. But I seem to make out, to a certainty, 
at least another "Act" for Rosanna and prob- 
ably another for Horton; though perhaps not more 
than one, all to herself, for Cissy. I say at least 
another for Horton on account of my desire to 
give Gray as affecting Horton, only less than I 
 
want to give Horton as affecting Gray. It is true 
that I get Gray as affecting Horton more or less 
in Book 3, but as the situation developes it will 
make new needs, determinations and possibili- 
ties. All this for feeling my way and making 
things come, more and more come. I want an 
Aspect under control of Davey, at all events — 
this I seem pretty definitely to feel; but things 
will only come too much. At all events, to re- 
treat, remount, a little there are my 3 first Books 
sufficiently started without my having as yet 
exactly noted the absolutely fundamental ante- 
cedents. But before I do this, even, I memorise 
that Gray's Scene with Rosanna for 3 of Book 2 
shall be by her coming over to Mr. Betterman's 
house herself that evening, all frankly and di- 
rectly, to see him there; not by his going over to 
her. And I seem to want it evening; the sum- 
mer night outside, with their moving about on 
the Terrace and above the sea etc. Withal, by 
the same token, I want such interesting things 
between them from immediately after the pro- 
mulgation of Mr. Betterman's Will; I want that, 
but of course can easily get it, so far as anything 
is easy, in Book 4, the function of which is to 
present Gray as face to face with the situation 
so created for him. This is obviously, of course, 
one of Gray's Aspects, and the next will desirably 
be, I dare say too; can only be, so far as I can 
now tell, when I consider that the Book being my 
 
Fourth, only Six of the Ten which I most devoutly 
desire to limit the thing to then remain for my 
full evolution on the momentum by that time 
imparted. Certainly, at all events, the Situation 
leaves Newport, to come to life, its full life, in 
New York, where I seem to see it as going on to 
the end, unless I manage to treat myself to some 
happy and helpful mise-en-scene or exploitation 
of my memory of (say) California. The action 
entirely of American localisation, as goes without 
saying, yet making me thus kind of hanker, for 
dear "amusement's" sake, to decorate the thing 
with a bit of a picture of some American Some- 
where that is not either Newport or N.Y. I even 
ask myself whether Boston wouldn't serve for 
this garniture, serve with a narrower economy 
than "dragging in" California. I kind of want 
to drag in Boston a little, feeling it as naturally 
and thriftily workable. But these are details 
which will only too much come; and I seem to 
see already how my action, however tightly 
packed down, will strain my Ten Books, most 
blessedly, to cracking. That is exactly what I 
want, the tight packing and the beautifully audi- 
ble cracking; the most magnificent masterly little 
vivid economy, with a beauty of its own equal 
to the beauty of the donnee itself, that ever was. 
However, what the devil are, exactly, the little 
fundamentals in the past ? Fix them, focus them 
hard; they need only be perfectly conceivable, 
 
but they must be of the most lucid sharpness. I 
want to have it that for Gray, and essentially for 
Rosanna, it's a renewal of an early, almost, or 
even quite positively, childish beginning; and for 
Gray it's the same with Horton Vint — the im- 
pression of Horton already existing in him, a 
very strong and "dazzled" one, made in the 
quite young time, though in a short compass of 
days, weeks, possibly months, or whatever, and 
having lasted on (always for Gray) after a fashion 
that makes virtually a sort of relation already 
established, small as it ostensibly is. Such his 
relation with Rosanna, such his relation with 
Horton — but for his relation with Cissy ? 
Do I want that to be also a renewal, the residuum 
of an old impression, or a fresh thing altogether ? 
What strikes me prima facie is that it's better to 
have two such pre-established origins for the 
affair than three; the only question is does that 
sort of connection more complicate or more simr 
plify for that with Cissy? It more simplifies if 
I see myself wanting to give, by my plan, the full 
effect of a revolution in her, a revolution marked 
the more by the germ of the relation being thrown 
back, marked the more, that is, in the sense of; 
the shade of perfidy, treachery, the shade of the 
particular element and image that is of the es- 
sence, so far as she is concerned, of my action., 
How this exactly works I must in a moment go 
into — hammer it out clear; but meanwhile there 
 
are these other fundamentals. Gray then is the 
son of his uncle's half-sister, not sister (on the 
whole, I think); whose dissociation from her rich 
brother, before he was anything like so rich, must 
have followed upon her marrying a man with 
whom he, Mr. Betterman, was on some peculiarly 
bad terms resulting from a business difference or 
quarrel of one of those rancorous kinds that such 
lives (as Mr. Betterman's) are plentifully be- 
strewn with. The husband has been his victim, 
and he hasn't hated him, or objected to him for 
a brother-in-law, any the less for that. The 
objected-to brother-in-law has at all events died 
early, and the young wife, with her boy, her scant 
means, her disconnection from any advantage 
to her represented by her half-brother, has be- 
taken herself to Europe; where the rest of that 
history has been enacted. I see the young hus- 
band, Gray's father, himself Graham Fielder the 
elder or whatever, as dying early, but probably 
dying in Europe, through some catastrophe to be 
determined, two or three years after their going 
there. This is better than his dying at home, 
for removal of everything from nearness to Mr. 
Betterman. Betterman has been married and has 
had children, a son and a daughter, this is indis- 
pensable, for diminution of the fact of paucity of 
children; but he has lost successively these be- 
longings — there is nothing over strange in it; the 
death of his son, at 1 6 or 1 8 or thereabouts, hav- 
 
ing occurred a few years, neither too few nor too 
many, before my beginning, and having been the 
sorest fact of his life. Well then, young Mrs. 
Fielder or whoever, becomes thus in Europe an 
early widow, with her little boy, and there, after 
no long time, marries again, marries an alien, a 
European of some nationality to be determined, 
but probably an Englishman; which completes 
the effect of alienation from her brother — easily 
conceivable and representable as "in his way," 
disliking this union; and indeed as having made 
known to her, across the sea, that if she will for- 
bear from it (this when he first hears of it and 
before it has taken place) and will come back to 
America with her boy, he will "forgive" her and 
do for her over there what he can. The great fact 
is that she declines this condition, the giving up 
of her new fiance, and thereby declines an advan- 
tage that may, or might have, become great for 
her boy. Not so great then — Betterman not then 
so rich. But in fine — With which I cry Eureka, 
eureka; I have found what I want for Rosanna's 
connection, though it will have to make Rosanna 
a little older than Gray, 2 or 3 or 3 or 4 years, 
instead of same age. I see Gray's mother at any 
rate, with her small means, in one of the smaller 
foreign cities, Florence or Dresden, probably the 
latter, and also see there Rosanna and her mother, 
this preceding by no long time the latter's death. 
Mrs. Gaw has come abroad with her daughter, 
 
for advantages, in the American way, while the 
husband and father is immersed in business cares 
at home; and when the two couples, mother and 
son, and mother and daughter, meet in a natural 
way, a connection is more or less prepared by the 
fact of Mr. Gaw having had the business associa- 
tion with Mrs. Fielder's half-brother, Mr. Better- 
man, at home, even though the considerably vio- 
lent rupture or split between the two men will 
have already taken place. Mrs. Gaw is a very 
good simple, a bewildered and pathetic rich 
woman, in delicate health, and is sympathetic to 
Gray's mother, on whom she more or less throws 
herself for comfort and support, and Gray and 
Rosanna, Rosanna with a governess and all the 
facilities and accessories natural to wealth, while 
the boy's conditions are much leaner and plainer 
— the two, I say, fraternise and are good friends; 
he figuring to Rosanna (say he is about 13, while 
she is 16) as a tremendously initiated and in- 
formed little polyglot European, knowing France, 
Germany, Italy etc. from the first. It is at this 
juncture that Mrs. Fielder's second marriage has 
come into view, or the question and the appear- 
ance of it; and that, very simultaneously, the 
proposal has come over from her half-brother on 
some rumour of it reaching him. As already 
mentioned, Betterman proposes to her that if she 
will come back to America with her boy, and not 
enter upon the union that threatens, and which 
 
must have particular elements in it of a nature 
to displease and irritate him, he will look after 
them both, educate the boy at home, do some- 
thing substantial for them. Mrs. Fielder takes 
her American friend into her confidence in every 
way, introduces to her the man who desires to 
marry her, whom Rosanna sees and with whom 
the boy himself has made great friends, so that 
the dilemma of the poor lady becomes a great and 
lively interest to them all; the pretendant himself 
forming also a very good relation with the Ameri- 
can mother and daughter, the friends of his friend, 
and putting to Mrs. Gaw very eagerly the possi- 
bility of her throwing her weight into the scale in 
his favour. Her meeting, that is Mrs. Fielder's 
meeting, the proposition from New York involves 
absolutely her breaking off with him; and he is 
very much in love with her, likes the boy, and, 
though he doesn't want to stand in the latter's 
light, has hopes that he won't be quite thrown 
over. The engagement in fact, with the marriage 
near at hand, must be an existing reality. It is 
for Mrs. Fielder something of a dilemma; but she 
is very fond of her honourable suitor, and her in- 
clinations go strongly to sticking to him. She 
takes the boy himself into her confidence, young 
as he is, — perhaps I can afford him a year or two 
more — make him 15, say; in which case Rosanna 
becomes 18, and the subsequent chronology is 
thereby affected. It isn't, I must remember, as 
 
a young man in his very first youth, at all, that I 
want Gray, or see him, with the opening of the 
story at Newport. On the contrary all the pro- 
prieties, elements of interest, convenience etc., 
are promoted by his being not less than 30. I 
don't see why I shouldn't make him 33, with 
Rosanna thus two years older, not three. If he 
is17, it will be old enough 
for each, without being too old, I think, for Gray. 
18 years will thus have elapsed from the crisis at 
Florence or wherever to the arrival at Newport. 
I want that time, I think, I can do with it very 
well for what I see of elements operative for him; 
and a period of some length moreover is required 
for bringing the two old men at Newport to a 
proper pitch of antiquity. Mr. Betterman dies 
very much in the fulness of years, and as Rosan- 
na's parent is to pass away soon after Iwant him 
to have come to the end. If Gray is 15, however, 
I mustn't make his mother too mature to inspire 
the devotion of her friend; at the same time that 
there must have been years enough for her to 
have lived awhile with her first husband and lost 
him. Of course this first episode may have been 
very brief — there is nothing to prevent that. If 
she had married at 20 she will then be, say, about 
36 or so at the time of the crisis, and this will be 
quite all right for the question of her second mar- 
riage. Say she lives a considerable number of 
years after this, in great happiness, her marriage 
 
having taken place; I in fact require her to do so, 
for I want Gray to have had reasons fairly strong 
for his not having been back to America in the 
interval. I may put it that he has, even, been 
back for a very short time, on some matter con- 
nected with his mother's interests, or his own, or 
whatever; but I complicate the case thereby and 
have to deal somehow with the question of whether 
or no he has then seen Mr. Betterman. No, I 
don't want him to have been back, and can't do 
with it; keep this simple and workable. All I am 
doing here is just to fix a little his chronology. 
Say he has been intending to go over at about 
25, when his mother's death takes place, about 10 
years after her second marriage. Say then, as is 
very conceivable, that his- stepfather, with whom 
he , has become great friends, then requires and 
appeals to his care and interest in a way that 
keeps him on arid on till the latter's death takes 
place just previous to Mr. Betterman's sending 
for him. This gives me quite sufficiently what I 
want of the previous order of things; but doesn't 
give me yet the fact about Rosanna's connec- 
tion in her young history which I require. I see 
accordingly what has happened in Florence or 
Dresden as something of this kind: that Mrs. 
Fielder, having put it to her boy that he shall 
decide, if he can, about what they shall do, she 
lets Mrs. Gaw, who was at this juncture in con- 
stant intercourse with her, know that she has 
 
done so — Mrs. Gaw and Rosanna being, together, 
exceedingly interested about her, and Rosanna 
extremely interested, in a young dim friendly 
way, about Gray; very much as if he were the 
younger brother she hasn't got, and whom, or 
an older, she would have given anything to have. 
Rosanna hates Mr. Betterman, who has, as she 
understands and believes, in some iniquitous 
business way, wronged or swindled her father; 
and isn't at all for what he has proposed to the 
Fielders. In addition she is infatuated with 
Europe, makes everything of being there, dreams, 
or would dream, of staying on if she could, and 
has already in germ, in her mind, those feelings 
about the dreadful American money-world of 
which she figures as the embodiment or expres- 
sion in the eventual situation. She knows thus 
that 'the boy has had, practically, the decision 
laid upon him, and with the whole case with all 
