but Ralph felt easily enough that it was yet none 
of his affair and that he should even perhaps at 
no price ever learn it. It had poisoned for her a 
continent, a hemisphere, and such a hush for the 
moment fell upon him that he might verily have 
been in presence of it. While they kept in com 
munication during these instants he at any rate 
put things together. "The condition you speak 
of is then that one shall never ask you again to 
leave this country ? " 
She shook her head as for pity of his poor vision, 
though he pretended so to vision. "No. It's 
worse than that." 
Then it was really that he guessed, though 
there was something in him that couldn't make 
  
him eagerly jump to it. "Of course," he vaguely 
observed, "your having had your fill -!" 
"Yes she sighed with all the meaning his 
drop didn't grasp, "I've had my fill!" and she 
turned away as if he might already now see too 
much. The next minute, however, she was upon 
him again with what had to serve for the time 
as the rest of the story. "It's too monstrous a 
thing to ask, and I don't ask it. It makes every 
thing so impossible that I should have liked a 
thousand times better your not speaking to me. 
It can do, you see, neither of us any good; for 
it only offers me as rather crazy as heartlessly 
perverse if you like and yet gives you no hope 
of curing or redeeming me. I should have to 
ask, you know," she now fully explained, "for 
a vow." 
He smiled from further off. "That I shall 
take my oath ? " 
"Never yourself to go." 
"Not anywhere, you mean ?" 
Her pause had this time more visible thought. 
"Nowhere you most want. Oh," she declared, 
"I know what you most want and what you've 
a thousand reasons for wanting. I know just 
what your admirable life has been and how, by 
so rare a chance, you've been held fast here and 
prevented. I know you're at last free, and that 
except, if you insist on it, your idea about me 
you've naturally now no other thought in your 
  
head but to make up for lost time and repair 
your sacrifice. That's naturally your necessity 
much more than the fancied necessity in obedience 
to which you've spoken to me; and my conviction of this is what makes me bold to speak to 
you as I do. I don't fear, you see" she gathered 
confidence, she gathered even a force of expres 
sion she had never known, as she went "that 
I shall have it on my conscience that I've succeeded with you. I shall on the contrary simply 
have exposed myself; which I shan't at all regret, 
however, if I've helped you to clear up your feel 
ings." To this service of charity in fact, and 
nothing more, she had finally the air of lending 
herself, while Pendrel began to take it all from 
her as if he too saw the truth. It was at the 
same time characteristic of her that at the moment of indicating the sacrifice she made, the 
exposure, as she called it, that she consented to, 
for his ultimate peace, she drove well home the 
knife she had planted. "My excuse would have 
been if there were any chance for me that you 
happened to be so perfect a case for what I call 
to myself salvation. One doesn't easily find a 
man of your general condition who has not, as 
we say, 'been'; and much less therefore a man 
of your particular one. By your particular one," 
Aurora Coyne wonderfully proceeded, "I mean 
that of knowing so much that might seem to 
have been to be got at only by immense experience. 
You know everything, and yet you've learnt it 
all over here; some miracle or other has worked 
for you or it comes to the same thing ! for my 
 vision of you: I don't know, even with your 
happy conditions, after all, what it can have been, 
but it makes you, doesn't it ? the single case of 
your kind. If you had been spoiled there would 
have been no use and of course as it is there's 
none. Only I can't help having just put it to 
you thus," she wound up, "that you've not been 
spoiled." 
There was no doubt of the nature of the effort 
made by Pendrel to do these remarks justice. 
"You do put it to me with the magnificence that 
attends every breath of your being. I haven't 
been spoiled I see quite what you mean I only 
can be." 
"You only will be," she said almost tenderly. 
"You'll be beautifully spoiled." 
"For youy that is, of course," Ralph went 
on. 
"For me certainly. Isn't it only of myself 
after all that we're talking ?" 
He answered nothing and trie silence between 
them was for a little as if she had suddenly given 
him a chance. This effect moreover grew from 
what he finally said; which was after he had 
restlessly moved to the window, looked out thence 
for some instants and then come back. "You 
would definitely accept me if I did formally give 
  
up everything but this?" and he jerked his 
head at the outer world of which he had with 
such intensity just renewed his impression. 
"Ah," she disappointingly answered, "I don't 
absolutely say that." 
Poor Pendrel again stared. "Then what do 
you say at all ? Do you expect me to renounce 
for nothing?" 
"I don't expect you, as I've perfectly told you, 
in any degree to renounce. Why should you?" 
she added. "No one will ever have an idea of 
what you have lost." 
"No one but myself," he said with his eyes on 
her. 
"Oh, I think you will least of all." 
She had answered so straight that it had almost 
the sound of levity; by the hint of which he was 
justly enough irritated. "It's too portentous 
what you ask!" 
But she found for this her quickest reply. "I 
don't ask anything. It's you who ask. I only 
answer. I decline the honour of your hand, and 
I give my reasons. If I had given none I should 
have been doubtless less absurd, and my reward 
is that I'm not really sure I should have been even 
less cruel. I'm sure," she continued, "but of one 
thing or rather perhaps of two: that I'm as in 
sane as you please, but that I'm also as rigid. 
Don't think, at all events, that you need, or that 
you possibly can, tell me how my attitude strikes 
  
you. Do me the simple justice to believe that I 
know." 
So she appeared quietly to conclude, and it was 
in her quietness indeed that her perversity most 
showed; though this was in a manner an aid, if 
a lame one, to her suitor, called upon at a mo 
ment's notice both to measure its extent and to 
give up the hope of getting round it. "You call 
me a 'case,' but it seems to me you're at least 
as extraordinary a one." 
"I didn't apply the term to you abusively," 
she made sufficient haste to explain. And then 
as, however she applied it, he but sat, in his hard 
dilemma, with his head in his hands: "Am I not 
the first to admit that I can only appear unaccountably exalted it's the word you must have 
in your mind about me; and exalted on the subject on which it most seems to people grotesque 
to be so?" She gave herself up, in fine, as extravagant, maniacal, and then, further, to the 
moral of it, which was that they lacked all ground 
for possibly meeting. They must accept their 
preposterous difference, and she could herself do 
so the better that she was sure of what he had 
intended to say to her. He had his plans made; 
he "sailed," didn't he? next week, next month, 
next year even, if that should be more convenient 
to her, and had come to propose that she should 
sail with him. This was, as he saw, not so much 
as discussable; but he must go on sailing as if 
  
nothing whatever had happened. He must stay 
a long time, and it was indeed all but a certainty 
for her that when once he should get well into it 
he would find himself staying indefinitely. Yes, 
that was inevitably what must happen to him: 
he offered the bright example of a man of thirty, 
with means, curiosity, the highest culture, who 
had, for whatever reasons, never gone at all, but 
he would show how people with that history in 
fallibly made it up by never coming back when 
once they did go. Why should he come back ? 
With his tastes, his resources and opportunities, 
his intensified longing and disciplined youth, he 
would have an admirable life. 
Many things were before him while she talked, 
but most of all perhaps the almost sinister strangeness of his having been condemned to this ordeal. 
It was the last predicament he had ever dreamed 
of, the prescription of further patience least on 
the cards for him, he would have supposed, and 
least congruous with other realities. This in fact 
made her spring of action, the unconfessed influence that had worked in her, constantly less and 
less doubtful. The difficulty was that though he 
had everything on his side he actually felt himself 
in a cleft stick. "Don't you then," he appealed, 
"just simply and personally care for me the least 
little bit ? What you seem to me to have in your 
head," he went on after waiting a while in vain 
for her reply, "is, however you express it, a mere 
  
cold little theory, which is rather proud of itself, 
but which has the peculiarity of being both so 
phisticated and stupid. I don't quite see, you 
know, why I should be offered up on such an 
altar." After which, as she was still silent, 
though only as if because she had already said 
all: "Is it inconceivable," he demanded, "that I 
should in the course of time go for a few months 
without you?" 
She smiled in her implacable splendour at his 
touching want of grasp. "Isn't the whole point 
that you can't possibly go for a few months ? It 
would be a shame moreover if you did. I had 
quite as soon you went for a lifetime as for three 
days. I want you perfect, and three hours would 
prevent it. When I say 'I want   you," she hand 
somely developed, "I only mean I should want 
you if I had a right. My insanity, I quite under 
stand, deprives me of all rights. But at the same 
time," she insisted, "you don't in the least under 
mine it by calling it a cold little theory. I don't 
pretend that it's anything else: my cold little 
theory is exactly indeed that it would be interest- 
' ing to catch you catch you young, as they say, 
i since you are young and put you through." 
He followed her with his face of gloom. " For 
the amusement of seeing what I should be at 
(fifty?" 
"There you are" it had made her again quick; 
"and see what it is to be really intelligent ! Pre- 
  
cisely for the amusement, if you prefer that word 
though I should use some other: save for the 
high idea, the intense interest, the peculiar beauty. 
I should see," said Mrs. Coyne, "what it makes 
of a man." 
"You would indeed!" her visitor brooded. 
She laughed out at his tone. "Ah but don't 
put it as a threat as if you'd be Nick o' the 
Woods, and, to punish me for what I should have 
kept you from, wish to beat out my brains. You'd 
really be as pleased with me, I feel sure, as I 
should with you, and we'd grow old together in 
honour and patriotism." She became, however, 
the next moment braver; which had the effect of 
showing her as kinder. "It's all, when one con 
siders, the fault of your peculiar situation added, 
I mean, to the turn of your mind. The result of 
the combination of your starved state (which I 
call, you see, to oblige you, what you would call 
it) and your natural passion for everything old is 
as calculable as to-morrow's dawn." It was the 
sort of fact one could put in a nutshell. "The 
only way for you not to remain is not to go." 
"You'll see whether I remain," Ralph said as 
drily as he could. 
"Oh but do! Do," she earnestly repeated. 
"The great thing is after all not to spoil it 
whichever way you take it; and isn't it also, when 
one thinks, much better you should be perfect 
for yourself than for me ?" 
  
"How you must, fortunately, hate and loathe 
me!" Ralph returned to that with the same 
mastered misery. "Because if it weren't for that 
what a question for us to separate on!" 
This appeared just to strike her. "It wouldn't 
be such a base one as you seem to suggest; but, 
to give you the benefit of the doubt, don't let us 
admit for a moment that it is the one ! By which 
I mean that we don't separate, inasmuch as for 
people to do that they must first have come to 
gether. For you to decline my condition I must 
first have imposed it. I mentioned just now," 
she added for further lucidity, "the fact that 
makes you such a catch for one's theory, but I 
didn't mention the other fact, the way you're in 
spite of everything pledged and committed 
which spoils it all. The ideal subject of my ex 
periment," she perfectly allowed, "needn't cer 
tainly be that particular rare bird, a young New 
' Yorker who's an ardent student of history. It's 
over there," she appeared magnanimously to 
muse, "that history can best be studied !" 
"How you laugh at me and lash me and rub 
it in !" Ralph grimly observed. 
But she put the matter for him now as if in 
her achieved indulgence of it no misjudgment 
could interrupt her. "You've earned your holi 
day, and nothing can be more right and just than 
for it to be long and unclouded. I know nothing 
of a finer grace than the way you've gone on year 
  
after year doing without it for the charity nearest 
home; and I'm not so stupid as not to have a 
notion of the disadvantage at which, in the in 
tellectual work you scraped time for, your limita 
tions and privations must often have placed you. 
You did it, bravely and patiently, as you could, 
and I'm sure, ignorant as I am, that no one else 
could have in the conditions done it half so well. 
Only the conditions were so wrong that it's de 
lightful they can at last be right. I'll wait for 
another day," she smiled, "to try my theory." 
"What you'll wait for," he after a moment 
returned, "is evidently and more especially 
another person." 
She shook her head in general relinquishment. 
"Another person will never turn up. There will 
always be a flaw. If he's worth one's idea he'll 
be sure to have been over. If he hasn't been over 
he'll be sure not to be worth one's idea. You" 
oh she could indeed, as he said, rub it in ! 
"would have been so perfectly worth it." 
"Perhaps I might still try to be," he thought 
fully suggested, "if I could by any chance come 
as near to it as really to understand it. But I 
assure you I don't so much as to take hold of it." 
She struck him for a moment as on the point, 
in answer to this, of breaking into impatience 
and declaring that his failure of comprehension 
needn't matter to him. He had a glimpse thus 
of what he believed that she truly would have 
  
wished him to take her conception on trust and, 
as it were, for the love of her; to oblige her by 
adopting it, by accommodating himself blindly. 
Her courage, however, he made out, was insuffi 
cient for this, and the next minute she only did 
for herself what she could. "That's because I'm 
at the disadvantage, which I perfectly recognise, 
of not having practised what I preach because 
I naturally, in my position, have everything 
against me." She smiled again for the vanity of 
j the regret, but she went on. "If I could have 
known how I was now to feel I would never have 
gone." 
Ralph tried to follow her as if something might 
come of it. "But it took nothing less than your 
charming experience, I gather, to produce your 
actual attitude. You would have had no attitude 
without it. You had to qualify yourself for your 
remonstrance." 
He spoke so gravely that it made, in effect, for 
irony, and that in turn just visibly made her 
flinch. "Well, I do of course hold myself quali 
fied, and of course I'm glad to be, on any terms. 
I give it to you at best as mere inevitable reaction, 
but the point I make is that as reaction it's final. 
One must choose at last" she couldn't, he saw, 
but let herself go; "and I take up definitely with 
my own country. It's high time; here, en fin de 
compte, one can at least do or be something, show 
something, make something. To try and make 
  
something is at all events what's wanted of us, 
and even if we make nothing it's at least as good 
to make it here on the spot as to go thousands of 
miles on as great a fool's errand. I want in short 
to be an American as other people are well, 
whatever they are." 
Ralph turned it all over. "Yes, it's the new 
cry, and what can be more interesting than to 
hear it sounded more or less in French ? It's re 
commended for the 'upper classes,' and perhaps 
even beginning a little to be tried by them. It 
wouldn't take much," he continued, "to make me 
say that the day only could inevitably come when 
it would be for its little hour the new pose." 
"I dare say indeed it wouldn't take much to 
make you say it," she returned; "and I've also 
seen the moment coming at which for the mo 
ment you inevitably would. But I dare say you 
hold that the hour you speak of will pass: all the 
more reason therefore that I should make the 
most of it while it lasts. It may be only a dream, 
but the thing is while one can to keep dream- 
ing." 
He looked at her in silence longer than he had 
done yet. "What it comes to then is that you'll 
never dream of me." 
"By no means; because it's just in dreams !" 
But she pulled herself up. "I mean that their 
strangeness is their law. They, when they're 
happy, arrange everything to perfection. With 
  
you or without you at any rate," she pursued, 
"mine will go on. They'll be as fantastic as you 
please that is as much about the poor product." 
She held him for a moment with this, then she 
broke out: "How shall we ever know his possi 
bility unless we give him a chance? What I'm 
dying to see is the best we can turn out quite by 
ourselves." 
He sacrificed his indifference. "The best young 
man?" 
"Oh I don't care how old he is ' 
"So long as he's young!" Poor Pendrel for 
want of anything better to do interrupted. 
But she held her course. "The older he is the 
more he'll have given us time to see. Of course," 
she splendidly added, "he may be a failure, and, 
if he is, that will more or less settle the question. 
We're nowhere till it is settled." 
Ralph showed on his side no less noble a pa 
tience. "But isn't it settled by the cowboy?" 
"The cowboy?" she stared. 
"Why isn't he what you want, and why isn't 
he good enough ? He sometimes in spite of his 
calling, I believe, lives to a great age. There are 
cases surely in which he will have given you time 
to see, and he has the great merit of standing 
there ready to your hand. You talk about the 
   question,' but what is he but the best answer 
to it that any conditions at all conceivable 
can yield ? You say mine my conditions are 
  
wrong; so that what are his, logically, unless 
right ? If he isn't right with them it would seem 
therefore their fault. I wonder it doesn't strike 
you in fine that if he isn't good enough your idea 
itself perhaps isn't." Now that Ralph was 
launched he felt the tide high. "That's what it 
comes to, your idea, dress it up as you will. You 
want a fellow only who shall have had adventures 
and that, I hasten to grant, is any lady's right. 
There's no disputing about tastes, but that isn't 
true about principles. You want the adventure 
to have been, or necessarily to be, of the species 
most marked and determined by our climate, our 
geographical position, our political institutions, 
our social circumstances and our national charac 
ter. It seems to me you see lines drawn remark 
ably sharp, but, allowing you that, I repeat that 
you strike me as having but to take your choice. 
The cowboy," he suggested, "of middle-age, 
say " 
But she had now interrupted as if for com 
miseration. "I don't even yet know what a cow 
boy is!" 
It was at all events her seeing him gracelessly 
astray that she made him most feel. "There 
am  for you then. I don't know what anyone 
is who leads the life of action so little am I such 
a creature myself." And straight though he 
was sore for it he looked the whole thing in the 
face. It's my type itself that's impossible to you. 
  
I shouldn't even here," he averred, "be able to 
meet your views or do what you require. I'd be 
a brute for it if I could as indeed I often wish I 
were one; but I'll be hanged if I see my way. My 
adventures are all in a very small circle" and 
our young man tapped the seat of his brain. 
He thought it out at the moment almost as much 
for himself as for Aurora. "If it weren't that 
I'm trying to equip myself without disgrace in 
this one, I should doubt if in a fix of the kind that 
for you makes the hero I could be rightly counted 
on to know what to do. There you have me. 
Yes, it comes home to me: I only know what to 
do in thought or, as you might say, imagination 
and but the least little bit even there; also with 
out any firm confidence of doing it. So that if 
none but a ranchman need apply !" he could 
in fine, while they dropped, with this, into their 
longest break, but look about for his hat. "I 
suppose it's no use my saying," he went on when 
he had found this article, "that if it interests you 
at all I may just possibly before long come in for 
something in England." He waited a little for 
her to take him up on it, but to the simple in 
crease of his sense of her leaving him now to 
flounder as he would. He floundered accordingly 
an instant longer. "To me to my mind of 
course I mean such a windfall, in the shape of a 
bit of old property, an old house, a piece of sug 
gestive concrete antiquity, easily represents, as 
  
you can conceive, rather a 'treat.' But I don't 
dream it's a thing to dazzle you with." He felt 
as soon as he had spoken, or rather as soon as her 
own silence had again marked itself, as if he had 
seen a vulgar bribe fall flat; and he was equally 
aware that what he next said deepened this ap 
pearance. "Of course there's nothing of that sort 
that can mean much to you to-day. You've seen 
everything again and again." 
"Oh," she answered at last, "I've seen a great 
deal. But not what you will. You'll know so 
much better how. You've work cut out, but 
you're to be envied." 
He put out his hand to her. "Good-bye till 
next year." 
For a moment she kept it. "Why do you talk 
so foolishly ? " 
"I say nothing more foolish than that I shall 
by that time see you again." 
At this she slowly released him. "Of course 
it will be comparatively easy for you, but it won't 
really be worth your while to come back to spite 
me." 
"I shall come back," said Ralph, "because I 
shall want to." 
She had another of those weighted headshakes 
which, as if determined less from within than 
from without, suggested the perfect working of her 
beauty rather than that of her thought. "No V 
it's there that you're wrong and that I'm so right. 
 
I'm not such an idiot as not to know that there 
will always be a steamer and that you can always 
pay your passage. When I said that if you go 
you'll never come back I meant that you'll never 
wish to. Of course you can come back without 
wishing as much as you like. But that," she 
blandly remarked, "won't do for me." 
"How well you know what I wish," he exhaled, 
"and how much every way you know about 
everything ! " 
"Well," she patiently replied before he had 
time finally to leave her, "it's not wholly my 
fault if an expression you once used to me has 
much worked in me. I remembered it as soon 
as I saw you to-day, and it would have made a 
folly of my talking to you of my conditions if 
I had done that with any other practical view 
than to call your attention to our impossibilities. 
You used it on one occasion when I was last at 
home in a way that has made me never forget 
it." 
Ralph wondered. "I've used doubtless plenty 
of expressions and in plenty of absurd ways. But 
what in the world was this one ? " 
She brought it responsibly out. " 'The sense 
of the past '." 
He wondered still more. "Is that all?" 
"You said it was the thing in life you desired 
most to arrive at, and that wherever you had 
found it even where it was supposed to be most 
  
vivid and inspired it had struck you as deplor 
ably lacking intensity. At the intensity required, 
as you said, by any proper respect for itself, 
you proposed if possible yourself to arrive art,  
research, curiosity, passion, the historic passion, 
as you called it, helping you. From that mo 
ment," she went on, "I saw. The sense of the 
past is your sense." 
He attended with a cold eye. "I haven't an 
idea what trash I may have talked." 
"Don't be dishonest," she returned after a 
moment. 
It brought, almost as a blow, a flush to his 
cheek. " Dishonest ? " 
"Don't deny yourself. Don't deny your am 
bition. Don't deny your genius." 
He looked at her over it strangely, and then 
as if light had really br&ken, "Are those things 
what you hate me for?" he almost gasped. 
"Live up to them," she returned as if she had 
not heard him. "You won't do anything else." 
She said it with a shortness that was almost 
stern, and he felt, detestably, as if she had but 
one moment instructed and at the other derided 
him. "Isn't that moreover quite the lesson of 
the chance, the one you just mentioned, of what 
you may come in for? Isn't an old property for
you the very finger of fortune, the very  lead  of 
providence ? Profit for heaven's sake by your 
old property. It will open your eyes." She went 
  
on with widened looks which so further ennobled 
her face that they held him by themselves, stand 
ing out as he did from any truth in them. "That's 
what your little book itself says your little book 
that's so wonderful for a man uninitiated; by 
which I venture to mean, you see, a man un- 
travelled. It's apropos of what you call the 
'backward vision,' and I could immediately find 
the page. 'There are particular places where 
things have happened, places enclosed and or 
dered and subject to the continuity of life mostly, 
that seem to put us into communication, and 
the spell is sometimes made to work by the im 
position of hands, if it be patient enough, on an 
old object or an old surface.' It's very wonderful, 
you know, your having arrived at that, your 
having guessed it, in this place, which denies the 
old at every turn and contains so few such ob 
jects or surfaces." So she continued to comment.' 
"I hope your old house will contain plenty of 
them." 
Her quotation of this twaddle, as it struck 
him, from his small uninformed Essay, for which 
he now blushed, completed his disarray. Half a 
dozen things rose to his lips and stopped, but 
the bitterest got uttered. "What's most extraor 
dinary is that illusion I was under about your 
own type. I had taken it," he explained, "as 
so beautifully suggestive." 
"Suggestive of what?" his hostess asked. 
  
He looked at her without meeting this and as 
for the last time. "And again it's all there. You 
would help me more than anyone. I feel it," he 
continued with his eyes on her face, "really not as a 
mistake. Essentially well, you're one of them." 
"One of whom?" 
"The women. The women. Good-bye," he 
said again and offering his hand as if their queer 
chasm had been bridged by this intensity of the 
personal question. It was as if he took some 
thing that she couldn't help giving, and what he 
took made him after an instant break out: "It 
will be you I'll be hanged ! who will come." 
But she was so firm and finished and high 
withal that even the ring of perception in this, 
or at least the rush of confidence, failed to make 
her wince. It only made her think to the very 
end of her goodnature. "I'll tell you what I'll 
do if I can trust to your honour." 
"You can trust to my honour," Pendrel said. 
"Very well then, I promise you that if I find 
I want to for that's the point I'll loyally, 
bravely, and at whatever cost this time to my 
vanity, go back." 
Pendrel weighed it. "Isn't there a danger 
that you'll take care not to find you want 
to?" " 
"Certainly a danger. I can do anything rather 
than want to. Anything, that is I again promise 
you short of marrying to save myself. It will 
take a miracle to move me, but if I am moved 
moved from within and by something now in 
calculable you may count on me. That," Au 
rora said, "is the meaning of my talking of my 
honour." 
"And what's the meaning," Ralph asked, "of 
your talking of mine ?" 
"Why, that I take in the same way my chance 
of yours." She paused he must understand. 
This took him indeed no great time. "You'll 
have me if I do come?" 
She hesitated again but an instant. "If you 
come on your honour. If you come !" But 
it was as if she couldn't put it. 
He tried to help her. "Without regret ?" 
Ah this wasn't good enough. "If you come 
with desire." 
Ralph stared. "How in the world can I come 
without it if I come for you ?" 
She used again her large ease. "That won't 
help you if you're loyal." 
"Loyal?" he wondered. 
"To the real truth. To your genius." 
"Oh I'll take care of my genius!" 
"You will," she presently returned, "if you 
remember well this: that if you do rejoin me you 
engage to me to stay." 
"Very good I shall remember it well." 
"Good-bye then," said Aurora Coyne. 
She saw him to the door, where he paused for 
  
a last light. "Does that mean you hold you're 
safe?" 
"It means that I hold you are," she answered 
as she turned away.. 
BOOK SECOND 
IT was not till he reached the street that he took 
in all she meant as in particular by those last 
words. Without sense or sight, on leaving the 
house, he turned mechanically to the left and 
went blankly before him. This was not his way 
home, but he had no thought for ways. He 
moved simply because if he didn't there was 
nothing for him but to sit down on the first other 
doorstep. He felt mainly a great weakness felt 
almost nothing else; yet it was a weakness that, 
oddly, sustained him for a long stretch, carried 
him up to the Park, determined his passing in, 
and then made him proceed unheedingly from the 
nearer to the further end. It was only on reach 
ing the distant limit that he so much as noted 
a bench. The one he noted, however, he quickly 
sank upon; and little by little, thereafter, he 
gained a second consciousness. This was a per 
ception of the beauty of the day, the mildest 
mood of March. The windless air, charged with 
spring, was like a brimming cup held still. The 
weather was divine, but the person supposed by 
him an hour before as dear to him as life had 
since then turned him out into the world. Well, 
the world was there to take him. Yes, he in- 
  
creasingly felt, he was there and his bench, placed 
near the top of the spread of a great alley, seemed 
to give him a general view of it. The object in 
deed after a while most distinct in this view was 
Ralph Pendrel himself, who rose there conspicuous 
and held our young friend's eyes. What marked 
him most was that he was a man humiliated. 
Arrange it as he would or as she would he 
had not been good enough. What it really came 
to she might say what she liked was that he 
was not of the type. Who was then ? he could 
but put himself the question. He even presently 
reflected that it might serve her right to find after 
a while there was nobody. Thus it was that 
Ralph Pendrel, with the world taking him, was 
yet thrown back on that gentleman. If he was 
not good enough for her he would be so for this 
alternative friend; and he gathered about him 
in thought for an hour all the merits he could 
muster. One of them precisely was that he had 
another and quite a different passion. He kept 
repeating to himself that just this, for his hard 
mistress, was his defect. He had wondered much 
before he got up whether he had it with such 
intensity as to constitute a vice an inhuman 
side, that is, which she might pardonably dis 
trust. The only thing for him doubtless now 
therefore would be to attest the intensity. He 
at last quitted the place with the step of a man 
proposing to test it on the spot. All this while, 
  
however, the anxiety truly deepest in him was 
about another affair. What in the world had 
happened to her in Europe ? 
It was when he reached the quiet scene which 
the recent lapse of his mother's soft pervasion 
had made so inconsequently, though now the 
abode of a more single state, not wider but nar 
rower, that the next great thing befell him. He 
found on his table a letter from a firm of London 
solicitors, a communication on the face of it 
most harmoniously timed. It appeared that 
under the will of his late kinsman, Mr. Philip 
Augustus Pendrel, he inherited property a fact 
enriched by the further mention, on the part of 
his informants, that should he find it convenient 
to come to England without undue delay his 
being on the spot would contribute to their action 
in his interest. It may immediately be said that 
the light wind of this stroke had even at the 
moment a happy effect on the heat of his wound. 
The event would certainly appeal with no great 
directness to the author of that injury, but its 
connection with the object of his other passion, 
as we have termed this source of inspiration, be 
came at once of the liveliest. He made as rapidly 
as possible his arrangements for a journey to 
London, but he had time, before winding up the 
situation in New York, to hear from his cousin's 
representatives of matters still further concern 
ing him and to receive from them in especial a 
  
letter addressed in that gentleman's hand and 
not at first found among his effects. It contained 
the only words that had, so far as he knew, come 
to any member of the American kinship, for two 
generations, from any member of the English. 
The English, he was perfectly aware, had been 
held by the American to be ofHsh and haughty, 
and the American had stiffened itself to show 
that, since the question was of turning an un 
conscious back, the game was playable wherever 
backs were broad enough to show which they 
made bold to feel themselves in the new country 
too. It was familiar to Ralph Pendrel that his 
father and his grandfather had fairly studied, 
and had practised with consistency, the art of 
the cold shoulder. They had each been more 
than once to England, but had "looked up" no 
body and nothing had clearly not acquainted 
themselves either by inquiry or closer visitation 
with those thin possibilities of something some 
day to their advantage, or to that of their pos 
terity, that might have been dreamed of at the 
best. The property mainly accruing to Ralph 
loomed large now as a house it was described 
as commodious in a fine quarter of the town; 
this remained at first the limit of his charmed 
apprehension. No light, of the dimmest, had 
previously reached him as to the English view 
of what he had always heard called at home 
"the American attitude." He had in growing 
  
older not much believed there could be an English 
view; but it would seem after all that over this 
ground his fancy had too shyly hovered. 
Mr. Pendrel's letter practically expressed the 
unsupposed quantity, and nothing surely could 
have been of more flattering effect. Written to 
be delivered after his death, it explained and 
enhanced, the delightful document shaking the 
tree, as it were, for the golden fruit to fall. What 
it came to was that he had read as an old man 
his young relative's remarkable volume, "An 
Essay in Aid of the Reading of History," and, 
wishing somehow to testify to the admiration he 
felt for it, had come to consider that no symbol 
would be so solid as the old English house form 
ing the sole item, in a long list of heavily ham 
pered possessions, that he was free thus to dispose 
of. It was a mere town tenement, and none of 
the newest, but it was the best repayment of his 
debt he could make. He had nowhere seen the 
love of old things, of the scrutable, palpable past  
nowhere felt an ear for stilled voices, as precious 
as they are faint, as seizable, truly, as they are 
fine, affirm a more remarkable power than in the 
pages that had moved him to gratitude. Unpre 
tending though the title, the spare volume, but 
I in which every word reached the mark, was a 
contribution to causes he had always had much 
at heart, a plea with which he rejoiced that the 
name of their family should have been associated. 
  
There were old things galore in Mansfield Square; 
the past, he considered, held its state there for 
those with the wit to make it out; and, should 
his young kinsman accept his bequest, he would 
find himself master of a scene in which a chapter 
of history obscure, though not so remote as 
might perhaps have been wished would perhaps 
by his intervention step more into the light. 
The generations at least had passed through it, 
clinging indeed as long as they might, and couldn't 
have failed to leave something of their mark, 
which it would doubtless interest Mr. Ralph to 
puzzle out. It was the testator's wish that he 
should do so at his ease. The letter in fine was, 
as Ralph said, a deucedly beautiful gentlemanly 
one, and the turn of the wheel of fortune. The 
material advantage might be uncertain; but it 
was blessedly not for the economic question, it 
was for the historic, the aesthetic, fairly in fact 
for the cryptic, that he cared. A big London 
house sounded in truth on the face of the matter 
less like an aid to research than like an exposure 
to rates and taxes, a legacy of the order vulgarly 
known as thumping. But verily too even London, 
for our rare young man, was within the pale of 
romance. His "other" passion in short had 
soon begun freshly to glow. 
Within a month it had shaken him still harder, 
and all the more that, this time, his impatience 
had fallen and two or three of his illusions with 
  
it: his curiosity had sat down to its feast. He 
had encountered in London more business than 
he expected, but had not encountered what he 
most feared, the display of a swarm of litigants. 
This greatly eased his mind, since if injustice had 
been done it would have taken much from the 
savour of the feast. There was no nearer relative, 
it surprisingly seemed, no counter-claimant, no 
hint in the air of a satisfaction disputed. No 
unfortunate and expropriated person came, in a 
word, to light, and there was therefore neither a 
cause to defend nor a sacrifice to consider. The 
only thing really to consider in such a stroke of 
luck was its violation of the common law of prose. 
Life was at best good prose when it wasn't bad; 
 and Mr. Pendrel's succession was all "town 
tenement" as it might be poetry undefiled. It 
was none the less poetry that the value of the 
property was so easily ascertained to be high. 
Ralph reflected not even for a moment after he 
had been to see it that a fine country estate would 
have been more to his purpose. He had no pur 
pose, he freely recognised, but to begin at once to 
cultivate whatever relation should seem most 
fruitful to his so suddenly acquired "stake" in an 
alien order. The circumstance of its being ex 
actly what it was of no greater extent, yet of no 
less dignity ministered beyond anything else for 
the new master to a sense of close communication 
with the old. It was extraordinary how on this 
  
ground the young man felt himself understood; 
and he reflected endlessly as well as amazedly on 
the fact that it had all been done for him by his 
slim composition of five years before, so timid, so 
futile in the light of his subsequent growth. The 
affair would have been less of a fairytale and 
had indeed thereby less of a charm if Mr. Pen- 
drel's impulse had been determined by such a 
book as he might now write. What a book, what 
books, moreover, should properly proceed, he said 
to himself, from a longer and nearer view of the 
silent secrets of the place ! These were what had 
been bequeathed him, these were what the hand 
of death had placed before him, on the table, 
as in a locked brass-bound box the key of which 
he was to find. It would not be by any weakness 
of his, please God, that a single one of them 
should fail of its message. 
He liked to think, as he took possession, that 
his kinsman was watching, and therewith waiting, 
beyond the grave; though the way he had ab 
stained from restrictive conditions from all, that 
is, save a single one hereafter to be mentioned 
was perhaps the deepest note in his good taste. 
The part played in the whole business by that 
happy principle was in truth at moments almost 
