defending the Kussian revolutionists ; and so, as usual, he made 
somebody angry, and got himself and his seditious opinions 
reported. 
Lieutenant Gannet was the name of Jimmie's superior offi- 
cer. He had been a clerk in a cotton-mill before the war, and 
had never had the exercise of authority. Now he had to learn 
suddenly to give orders, and his idea of doing it was to be 
extremely sharp and imperative. He was a deeply conscientious 
young man, keen on the war, and willing to face any hardship 
or peril in fulfilment of his duty; but Jimmie could not have 
been expected to appreciate that all Jimmie knew was that 
his superior had a way of glaring from behind his spectacles, as 
if he was sure that some one was lying to him. 
Lieutenant Gannet didn't ask what Jimmie had said; he 
told Jimmie what he had said, and informed him that that kind 
of talk wasn't going on in the army while he was in hearing. 
Jimmie's business was to keep some motor-cycles in repair, 
and some cyclists on their job ; about other matters let him hold 
his tongue, and not try to run the affairs of the nation. Jim- 
mie ventured the remark that he had said nothing but what 
President Wilson was saying all along. To which the lieuten- 
ant replied that he was not interested in Sergeant Higgins 
opinions of President Wilson's opinions Sergeant Higgins was 
to keep his opinions to himself, or he would get into serious 
trouble. So Jimmie went away, seething with indignation, as 
much of a rebel as he had ever been in Local Leesville. 
What were the rights of a soldier anyway? Was he privi- 
leged to discuss political issues, and to agree with the utter- 
ances of the President of his country? Might he believe, as 
the President believed, in a just peace and the right of all 
peoples to freedom and self-determination, even though many 
of the officers of the army hated and despised such ideas? 
Jimmie didn't know, and there was nobody to tell him; but 
Jimmie knew that he hadn't meant to give up his rights as a 
citizen when he enlisted to fight for democracy, and if these 
rights were taken away from him, it would not be without a 
struggle. 
The transports came into the region of ice-bergs, and low- 
hanging mists, and rocky cliffs covered with snow, and flocks 
of sea-gulls flying over them. For days and nights on end they 
steamed in those arctic waters, and came at last into the White 
Sea, and the harbour of Archangel. 
The Allies had been here since the beginning of the war, 
building docks and sheds and railway yards; but they had 
never been able to build enough, and the transport department 
of the corrupt Russian government having gone to pieces, here 
were mountains of supplies of every sort you could think of 
for an army, piled high on the shores. At least, that was what 
Jimmie had been told; he had read in the newspapers that the 
statement was made officially in answer to questions in the 
British parliament. Jimmie had understood that he was here 
to save those mountains of supplies from the Germans, and he 
was surprised when he looked about the harbour and saw no 
mountains of any sort. 
Back in the interior were vast trackless forests of fir-trees, 
and moss-covered swamps in which in summer-time a man 
would sink up to his neck. Now, in September, they were al- 
ready frozen solid, and you travelled over them with a sledge 
and a team of reindeer, bundled up in furs and looking, ex- 
cept for the whiskers, like the pictures of Santa Glaus you had 
seen when you were a kid. But most of the traffic of the army 
was upon the rivers which cut the forests and swamps, and 
the single railroad, which was being put back into commission. 
This country had, of course, no roads on which motor-cycles 
could be used, even in summer. Jimmie found that his job 
would be confined to the city and the encampments near about. 
A few streets would be kept clear of snow, and the little band of 
messengers would scoot about them, now and then taking a 
slide into a snow-bank and smashing things up. That would 
have been all right, and Jimmie would have bossed the job and 
been happy as he knew how to be had only his mind been at 
peace. 
For the first few days, of course, he had no time to think, 
he was as busy as an ant, getting himself and his men ashore, 
and setting up their benches and tools in an iron shed, with a 
roaring stove at each, end, and heaps of fire-wood which the 
peasants brought on heavy flat sledges dragged hy reindeer. 
Jimmie and his unit worked, not merely during the hours of 
daylight, but most of the hours of darkness, not stopping for 
Sundays. There were five thousand men to be got ashore with 
their supplies and in a desperate rush, as if the Germans were 
expected at any hour. It was some while before Jimmie found 
time to go about the city, to meet the "Tommies," who had 
been here a month before him, and to hear what they had done, 
and what they were expecting to do. 
Jimmie had understood that this expedition was to fight 
the Germans; but now he became suspicious; apparently it 
was to fight the Bolsheviki ! The social revolution had accom- 
plished itself in Archangel, and a council of workingmen and 
peasants had been in full control, when the British troops and 
sailors had made a surprise attack and seized the port, driving 
the revolutionists in confusion before them. Now they were 
sending an expedition up the railroad, and another on steamers 
up the North Dwina river, pursuing Eussian Socialists and 
driving them back into frozen swamps ! And here were Amer- 
ican troops, being hurried ashore, and outfitted and made ready 
to join in what seemed to Jimmie to be warfare upon organised 
workingmen ! 
Jimmie was almost beside himself with bewilderment. It 
was all so new and strange to him and he had nobody to advise 
him. At home, if there were a Socialist problem to settle, he 
would take it to Meissner or Stankewitz, or Comrade Gerrity 
the organiser, or Comrade Mabel Smith, the chairman of the 
Literature Committee. But now, in all this expedition Jimmie 
did not know a single man who had any idea of radicalism; 
they looked upon the Bolsheviki as mad dogs, as traitors, crim- 
inals, lunatics, any word that seemed worst to you. The Bol- 
sheviki had deserted the cause of the Allies, they had gone into 
league with Germany to betray democracy; so now the Amer- 
icans had come to teach them the lesson of law and order. The 
Americans looked upon themselves as an advance guard of a 
vast expedition which was to march to Petrograd and Moscow, 
and wipe the idea of Bolshevism off the map. And Jimmie 
Higgins was to help! Jimmie Higgins, bound and gagged, 
lashed to the chariot of Militarism, was to take part in destroy- 
ing the first proletarian government in history! 
The more Jimmie thought of it, the more indignant he be- 
came; he took it as a personal outrage a scurvy trick that had 
been played upon him. He had swallowed their propaganda, he 
had filled himself up with their patriotism, he had dropped 
everything to come and fight for Democracy. He had gone 
into battle, had risked his life, had suffered wounds and agony 
for them. And now they had broken their bargain with him, 
they had brought him here and ordered him to fight working men 
just as if he had been a militiaman at home! Democracy 
indeed ! Here they were marching in, glorying in their purpose 
to conquer the Russian revolutionists! 
And Jimmie Higgins, under martial law, must obey and 
hold his tongue! Jimmie thought of all his friends at home 
who had denounced the military machine; he thought of Com- 
rade Mary Allen, of Comrade Mabel Smith and Comrade Eve- 
lyn Baskerville and Comrade Gerrity; he had rejected their 
advice, and now, if they could see what he was doing, how they 
would spurn him! Jimmie writhed at the very thought; nor 
was he consoled when one of the men in his company gave him 
an "inside" story of what was happening here that in order to 
persuade the British to submit their armies to the control of a 
French general, and thus to save the situation in France, the 
Americans had been forced to submit their own armies also; 
and now they found themselves ordered to march in and fight a 
revolutionary government which had repudiated its debt to 
France, and so had given offence to a naturally frugal people. 
Jimmie met a man whom he might almost have taken for 
Deror Rabin, so much did he resemble the little Jewish tailor. 
A big, black-whiskered peasant brought a load of wood for the 
fires; and there was a Jew helping him a chap with a sharp 
face and keen black eyes, his cheeks sunken as if he had not had 
enough to eat for years, and his chest racked by a cough. He 
had wrapped his feet and his hands in rags, because he had 
neither boots nor gloves ; but he seemed cheerful, and presently, 
as he dumped down a load, he nodded and said, "Hello I" 
"Hello yourself I" replied Jimmie. 
"I speak English," said the fellow. 
It didn't surprise Jimmie that anybody should speak Eng- 
lish; he was only surprised when they didn't. So he smiled 
and said, "Sure!" 
"I been in America' went on the other. "I vork by sveat- 
shop in Grand Street." 
You could see that he preferred gossiping to carrying wood ; 
he stood about and questioned, "Vere you vork in America?" 
When the peasant grumbled at him in Kussian, he went back 
at his job ; but as he went away, he said, "I talk vit you some- 
time about America." To which, of course, Jimmie answered 
with a friendly assent. 
A couple of hours later, when he went out from his work, 
he found the little Jew waiting for him in the darkness. "I git 
lonesome sometime for America," he said; and walked down 
the street with Jimmie, beating his thin arms to keep 
warm. 
"Why did you come back?" Jimmie inquired. 
"I read about revolution. I tink maybe I git rich." 
"Huh!" said Jimmie, and grinned. "What did you get?" 
"You belong to union in America?" countered the other. 
"You bet I do !" said Jimmie. 
"Vat sort of union?" 
"Machinist's." 
"You been on strike, maybe?" 
"You bet I have!" 
"You got licked, maybe?" 
"You bet!" 
"You don't never scab, hey?" 
"Not much!" 
"You vat you call class-conscious?" 
"You bet! I'm a Socialist!" 
The other turned upon him, his voice trembling with sudden 
excitement. "You got a red card ?" 
"You bet !" said Jimmie. "Eight inside my coat." 
"My God !" cried the other. "A comrade !" He stretched 
out his hands, which were bundled up with old gunny-sacking, 
to Jimmie. "Tovarish!" cried he. And standing there in the 
freezing darkness, these two felt their hearts leap into a hot 
glow. Here, under the Arctic Circle, in this wilderness of ice 
and desolation, even here the spirit of international fraternity 
was working its miracles ! 
But then, shaking with excitement, the little Jew pawed at 
Jimmie with his bundled hands. "If you are Socialist, vy you 
fight de Russian vorkers?" 
"I'm not fighting them!" 
"You vear de uniform." 
"I'm only a motor-cycle man." 
"But you help ! You kill de Russian people ! You destroy 
de Soviets ! Vy ?" 
"I didn't know about it," pleaded Jimmie. "I wanted to 
fight the Kaiser, and they brought me here without telling me." 
"Ah ! So it iss vit militarism, vit capitalism ! Ve are slaves ! 
But ve vill be free! And you vill help, you vill not kill de 
Russian vorkers !" 
"I will not!" cried Jimmie, quickly. 
And the little stranger put his arm through Jimmie's. "You 
come vit me, quick ! I show you someting, tovarish !" 
vr 
They threaded the dark streets till they came to a row of 
workingmen's hovels, made of logs, the cracks stuffed with mud 
and straw places in which an American farmer would not 
have thought it proper to keep his cattle. "So live de vorkers 
said the stranger, and he knocked on the door of one of the 
hovels. It was unbarred by a woman with several children 
about her skirts, and the men entered a cabin lighted by a 
feeble, smoky lamp. There was a huge oven at one side, with a 
kettle in which cabbage was cooking. The man said nothing 
to the woman, but signed Jimmie to a seat before the oven, and 
fixed his sharp black eyes on his face. 
"You show me de red card?" he said, suddenly. 
Jimmie took off his sheep-skin-lined overcoat, and un- 
buttoned his sweater underneath, and from an inside pocket 
of his jacket took out the precious card with the due-stamps 
initialled by the secretaries of Local Leesville and Local Hope- 
land and Local Ironton. The stranger studied it, then nodded. 
"Good! I trust you." As he handed back the card he re- 
marked, "My name is Kalenkin. I am Bolshevik." 
Jimmie's heart bounded though he had guessed as much, 
of course. "We called our local in Ironton Bolshevik," said 
he. 
"Dey drive us out from here," continued the Jew, "but I 
stay behind for propaganda. I look for comrades among de 
Americans, de British. I say, Do not fight de vorkers, fight de 
masters, de capitalists. You understand?" 
"Sure I" said Jimmie. 
"If de masters find me, dey kill me. But I trust you"
"I'll not tell!" said Jimmie, quickly. 
"You help me," went on the other. Cf You go to de Amer- 
ican soldiers, you say, De Eussian people have been slaves so 
many years; now dey get free, and you come to kill dem and 
make dem slaves again ! Vy iss it ? Vat vill dey say, tovarish ?" 
Jimmie answered: "They say they want to lick the Kai- 
ser." 
"But ve help to lick de Kaiser! Ve fight him!" 
"They say you've made peace with him." 
"Ve fight vit propaganda de vay de Kaiser fear most of 
all. Ve spend millions of rubles, ve print papers, leaflets you 
know, comrade, vat Socialists do. Ve send dem into Germany, 
ve drop dem by aeroplanes, ve have printing-presses in vat 
you call it, de Suisse, de Nederland everyvere. De Germans 
read, dey tink, dey say, Vy do ve fight for de Kaiser, vy do 
ve not be free like de Russians? I know it, tovarish, I have 
talked vit many German soldiers. It goes like a fire in Ger- 
many. Maybe it take time a year two years but some day 
people see, de Bolsheviki vere right, dey know de vorkers, de 
heart of de vorkers dey have de life, de fire dat cannot be put 
out in de heart!" 
"Sure," said Jimmie. "But you can't tell things like that 
to the doughboys." 
"My God!" said Kalenkin. "Don't I know? I vas in 
America ! Dey tink dey are de people vat de good God made ! 
Dey know ever'ting you cannot teach dem. Dey are democ- 
racy; dey have no classes; vage-slaves dat iss just foreign 
vat you call it scum, hey ? Dey vill shoot us I have seen how 
dey beat de vorkers ven dey strike on Grand Street." 
"I've been through it all," said Jimmie. "What can we 
do?" 
"Propaganda !" cried Kalenkin. "For de first time ve have 
plenty money for propaganda all de money in Russia for propa- 
ganda! Ever'vere in de vorld ve reach de vorkers ever'vere 
ve cry to dem : Rise ! Rise and break your chains ! You tink 
ciey vill not hear us, tovarish ! De capitalists know dey vill hear 
us, dey tremble, so dey send armies to beat us. Dey tink de 
armies vill obey alvays is it not so?" 
"They think the Eussian people will rise against you." 
At which the little man laughed, a wild, hilarious laugh. 
"Ve have got our own government ! For de first time in Rus- 
sia, de first time in de vorld, de vorkers rule; and dey tink ve 
rise against ourselves! Dey put up vat you call it puppets, 
vat dey call Socialists, dey make a government here in Archangel, 
vat dey call Russian! Dey fool demselves, but dey don't fool 
de Russians !" 
"They think this government will spread," said Jimmie. 
"It vill spread just so far as de armies go just so far. 
But in Russia, all de people come together all are Bolsheviki, 
ven dey see de foreign armies coming. And vy, tovarish ? Be- 
cause dey know vat it means ven capitalists come to make new 
governments for Russia. It means bonds de French, de 
British debt ! You know ?" 
"Sure, I know," said Jimmie. 
"It is billions, fifteen billions of roubles to France alone. 
De Bolsheviki have said, Ve do not pay dem so quick. And for 
vy ? Vat did dey do vit dat money ! Dey loaned it to de Tsar, and 
for vat? To make slaves out of de Russian people, to put dem 
in armies and make dem fight de Japanese, to make police-force 
and send hundert thousand Russian Socialists to Siberia! Is 
it not so? And Russian Socialists pay such debts? Not so 
quick! Ve say, Ve had nothing to do vit such money! You 
loaned it to de Tsar, now you collect it from de Tsar ! But dey 
say, You must pay! And dey send armies., to take de land of 
Russia, to take de oil and de coal and de gold. So, tovarish ! Dey 
vill put down de Soviets ! But if so, dey must take ever' town, 
ever village in Russia and all de time ve make propaganda 
vit de soldiers, ve make it vit Frenchmen and Englishmen and 
Americans, just like ve make it vit Germans !" 
VII 
The little man had made a long speech, and was exhausted ; 
the coughing seized him, and he pressed his hands to his chest, 
and his white face flushed red in the firelight. The woman 
brought him water to drink, and stood by him with a hand on 
his shoulder; her broad peasant's face, deeply lined with care, 
quivered at every spasm of the man's. Jimmie quivered too, 
sitting there watching, and facing in his own soul a mighty 
destiny. He knew the situation now, he knew his own duty. 
It was perfectly plain, perfectly simple his whole life had 
been one long training for it. Something cried out in him, 
in the words of another proletarian martyr, Let this cup pass 
from me ! But he stifled the voice of his weakness, and after a 
while he said, "Tell me what to do, comrade." 
Kalenkin asked, "You have made propaganda in America?" 
"Sure," said Jimmie. "I went to jail once fer makin' a 
speech on the street." 
And the other went to a corner of the cabin, and dug under 
half a dozen cabbages, and brought out a packet. It contained 
leaflets, a couple of hundred perhaps, and the Jew handed one 
to Jimmie, explaining, "Dey ask me, How shall ve make de 
Americans understand? I say, Dey must know how ve make 
propaganda vit de Germans. I say, Print de proclamations vat 
ve give to de German troops, and make English translation, so 
de Americans and de Englishmen can read. You tink dat help ? 
Jimmie took the leaflet and moved the lamp a bit nearer 
and read : 
"Proclamation of the Army Committee of the Kussian 
Twelfth Army (Bolshevik), posted throughout the city of Riga 
during its evacuation by the Kussians: 
"German Soldiers! 
"The Russian soldiers of the Twelfth Army draw your 
attention to the fact that you are carrying on a war for 
autocracy against Revolution, freedom and justice. The 
victory of Wilhelm will be death to democracy and freedom. 
We withdraw from Riga, but we know that the forces of 
the Revolution will ultimately prove themselves more power- 
ful than the force of cannons. We know that in the long 
run your conscience will overcome everything, and that the 
German soldiers, with the Russian Revolutionary Army, 
will march to the victory of freedom. You are at present 
stronger than we are, but yours is only the victory of 
brute force. The moral force is on our side. History 
will tell that the German proletarians went against their 
revolutionary brothers, and that they forgot international 
working-class solidarity. This crime you can expiate only 
by one means. You must understand your own and at the 
same time the universal interests, and strain all your 
immense power against imperialism, and go hand in hand 
with us toward life and liberty!" 
Jimmie looked up. 
"Vat you tink of it?" cried Kalenkin, eagerly. 
"Fine!" cried Jimmie. "The very thing they need! No- 
body can object to that. It's a fact, it's what the Bolsheviki 
are doing." 
The other smiled grimly. "Tovarish, if dey find you vit 
dat paper, dey shoot you like a dog ! Dey shoot us all I" 
"But why?" 
"Because it is Bolshevik." 
Jimmie wanted to say, But it's true ! However, he realised 
how naive that would sound. So he waited, while Kalenkin 
went on: 
"You show it only to men you can trust. You hide de 
copies, you take vun and make it dirty, so you say, I find it in 
de street. See, iss it so de Bolsheviki fight de Kaiser? If it 
iss so, vy do ve need to fight dem? So you give dese; and some 
day I come vit someting new' 
Jimmie agreed that that was the way to set about it. He 
folded up a score of the leaflets and stowed them in an inside 
pocket of his jacket, and put on his heavy overcoat and gloves, 
which he wished he could give to the sick, half -starved and half- 
frozen Bolshevik. He patted him reassuringly on the back, and 
said : "You trust me, comrade ; I'll hand them out, and they'll 
bring results too, I'll bet." 
"You don't tell about me !" exclaimed Kalenkin with fierce 
intensity. 
To which Jimmie answered, "Not if they boil me alive!" 
TIMMIE went to supper in the mess-hall; but the piles of 
 steaming hot food choked him he was thinking of the half- 
starved little Jew. The thirty pieces of silver in the pocket of 
his army jacket burned each a separate hole. Like the Judas 
of old, he wanted to hang himself, and he took a quick method 
of doing it. 
Next to him at the table sat a motor-cyclist who had been a 
union plumber before the war, and had agreed with Jimmie 
that workingmen were going to get their jobs back or would 
make the politicians sweat for it. On the way out from the 
meal, Jimmie edged this fellow off and remarked, "Say, I've 
got soinethin' interestin'." 
Now interesting things were rare here under the Arctic 
Circle. "What's that?" asked the plumber. 
"I was walkin' on the street," said Jimmie, "and I seen a 
printed paper in the gutter. It's a copy of the proclamation 
the Bolsheviki have made to the German soldiers, an' that 
they're givin' out in the German trenches." 
"By heck !" said the plumber. "What's in it ?" 
"Why, it calls on them to rise against the Kaiser to do what 
the Russians have done." 
"Can you read German ?" asked the other. 
"Naw," said Jimmie. "This is in English." 
"But what's it doin' in English?" 
"I'm sure I dunno." 
"What's it doin' in Archangel?" 
"Dunno that either." 
"Holy Christ !" cried the plumber. "I bet them fellers are 
trying their stunts on us !" 
"I hadn't thought of that," said Jimmie, subtly. "Mayhe 
it's so." 
"They won't get very far with the Yanks, I bet' predicted 
the other. 
"No, I suppose not, But anyhow, if s interesting, what they 
say." 
"Lemme see it," said the plumber. 
"But say," said Jimmie, "don't you tell nobody. I don't 
want to get into trouble." 
"Mum's the word, old man." And the plumber took the 
dirty scrap of paper and read. "By God!" said he. "That's 
kind o' funny." 
"How do you mean ?" 
"Why, that don't sound like them fellers were backing the 
Kaiser, does it?" And the plumber scratched his head. "Say, 
that sounds all right to me !" 
"Me too !" said Jimmie. "Didn't know they had that much 
sense." 
"It's just what the German people ought to have, by God," 
said the plumber. "Seems to me we ought to hire fellows to 
give out things like that." 
"I think so too," said Jimmie, enraptured. 
The plumber reflected again. "I suppose," said he, "the 
trouble is they wouldn't give it to the Germans only ; they'd want 
to give it to both sides." 
"Exactly !" said Jimmie, enraptured still more. -I 
"And of course that wouldn't do," said the plumber; "that 
would interfere with discipline." So Jimmie's hopes were 
dashed. 
But the upshot of the interview was that the plumber said 
he would like to keep the paper and show it to a couple of other 
fellows. He promised again that he wouldn't mention Jimmie, 
so Jimmie said all right, and went his way, feeling that one seed 
was lodged in good soil. 
II 
The "Y" had come to Archangel, along with the rest of 
the expedition, and had set up a hut, in which the men played 
checkers and read, and bought chocolate and cigarettes at prices 
which they considered too high. Jimmie strolled in, and there 
was a doughboy with whom he had had some chat on the trans- 
port. This doughboy had been a printer at home, and he had 
agreed with Jimmie that maybe a whole lot of politicians and 
newspaper editors didn't really understand President Wilson's 
radical thought, and so far as they did understand it, hated and 
feared it. This printer was reading one of the popular maga- 
zines, full of the intellectual pap which a syndicate of big bank- 
ers considered safe for the common people. He looked bored, so 
Jimmie strolled up and lured him away, and repeated his play- 
acting as with the plumber and with the same result. 
Then he strolled in to see one of the picture-shows which had 
been brought along to beguile the long arctic nights for the 
expedition. The picture showed a million-dollar-a-year girl 
doll-baby in her habitual role, a poor little child-waif dressed in 
the newest fashion and with a row of ringlets just out of a band- 
box, sharing those terrible fates which the poor take as an 
every-day affair, and being rewarded at the end by the love of 
a rich and noble and devoted youth who solves the social prob- 
lem by setting her up in a palace. This also had met with the 
approval of a syndicate of bankers before it reached the common 
people; and in the very midst of it, while the child-waif with 
the ringlets was being shown in a "close-up" with large drops 
of water running down her cheeks, the doughboy in the seat 
next to Jimmie remarked, "Aw, hell! Why do they keep on 
giving us this bunk?" 
So Jimmie suggested that they "cut it," and they went out, 
and Jimmie played his little game a third time, and again was 
asked to leave the leaflet he had picked out of the gutter. 
So on for two days, until Jimmie had got rid of the last 
of the manifestoes which Kalenkin had entrusted to him. And 
on the evening of the last day, as the subtle propagandist was 
about to turn into his bunk for the night, there suddenly ap- 
peared a sergeant with a file of half a dozen men and announced, 
"Higgins, you are under arrest." 
Jimmie stared at him. "What for?" 
"Orders that's all I know." 
"Well, wait " began Jimmie; but the other said there 
was no wait about it, and he took Jimmie by the arm, and one 
of the other men took him by the other arm, and marched him 
away. A third man slung Jimmie's kit-bag onto his shoulder, 
while the rest began to search the place, ripping open the mat- 
tress and looking for loose boards in the floor. 
It didn't take Jimmie very long to figure out the situation. 
By the time he had come into the presence of Lieutenant Gannet, 
he had made up his mind what had happened, and what he 
would do about it. 
The lieutenant sat at a table, erect and stiff, with a terrible 
frown behind his glasses. He had his sword on the table and 
also his automatic as if he intended to execute Jimmie, and 
had only to decide which method to use. 
"Higgins," he thundered, "where did you get that leaflet?" 
"I found it in the gutter' 
"You lie !" said the lieutenant. 
"No, sir' said Jimmie. 
"How many did you find ?" 
Jimmie had imagined this emergency, and decided to play 
safe. "Three, sir," said he; and added, "I think' 
"You lie !" thundered the lieutenant again. 
"No, sir," said Jimmie, meekly. 
"Whom did you give them to?" 
Jimmie hadn't thought of that question. It stumped him. 
"I I'd rather not say," said he. 
"I command you to say," said the lieutenant. 
"I'm sorry, sir, but I couldnt." 
"You'll have to say before you get through," said the other. 
"You might as well understand that now. You say you found 
three?" 
It might have been four," said Jimmie, playing still safer. 
"I didn't pay any particular attention to them." 
"You sympathise with these doctrines," said the lieutenant. 
"Do you deny it?" 
"Why, no, sir not exactly. I sympathise with part of 
them." 
"And you found these leaflets in the gutter, and you didn't 
take the trouble to count whether there were three or four?" 
"No, sir." 
"There couldn't have been five?" 
"I don't know, sir I don't think so." 
"Certainly not six?" 
"No, sir," said Jimmie, feeling quite safe now. "Fm sure 
there weren't six." 
So the lieutenant opened a drawer in the table before him,, 
and took out a bunch of the leaflets, folded, wrinkled and dirt- 
stained, and spread them before Jimmie's eyes, one, two> three,, 
four, five, six, seven. "You lie !" said the lieutenant. 
"I was mistaken, sir," said Jimmie. 
"Have you searched this man ?" the officer demanded of the 
other soldiers. 
"Not yet, sir." 
"Do it now." 
They made certain that Jimmie had no weapons, and then 
they made him strip to the skin. They searched everything, 
even prying loose the soles of his boots; and of course one of 
the first things they found was the red card in the inside jacket- 
pocket. "Aha !" cried the lieutenant. 
"That's a card of the Socialist party," said Jimmie. 
"Don't you know that back home men who carry that card 
are being sent to jail for twenty years?" 
"It ain't fer carryin' the card," said Jimmie, sturdily. 
There was a pause, while Jimmie got his clothes on again- 
"Now, Higgins," said the lieutenant, "you have been caught 
red-handed in treason against your country and its flag. The 
penalty is death. There is just one way you can escape by 
making a clean breast of everything. Do you understand ?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"Then tell me who gave you those leaflets ?" 
"I'm sorry, sir, I found them in the gutter." 
"You intend to stick to that silly tale?" 
"It's the truth, sir." 
"You will protect your fellow-conspirators with your life?' 
"I have told you all I know, sir." 
"All right," said the lieutenant. He took a pair of hand- 
cuffs from the drawer and saw them put on Jimmie. He picked 
up his sword and his automatic and Jimmie, who did not 
understand military procedure, stared with fright. But the 
lieutenant was merely intending to strap the weapons onto his 
belt; then he got into his overcoat and his big fur gloves and 
his fur hat that covered everything but his eyes and nose, and 
ordered Jimmie brought along. Outside an automobile was 
waiting, and the officer and the prisoner and two guards rode 
to the military jail. 
IV 
There was terror in the soul of the prisoner, but he did not 
let anyone see it. And in the same way Lieutenant Gannet did 
not let anyone see the perplexity that was in his soul. He was a 
military officer, he had his stern military duty to do, and he was 
doing it ; but he had never put anybody in hand-cuffs before, and 
had never taken anybody to jail before, and he was almost as 
much upset about it as the prisoner. 
The lieutenant had seen the terrible spectacle of Eussia col- 
lapsing, falling into ruin and humiliation, because of what 
seemed to him a propaganda of treason which had been carried 
on in her armies; he realized that these "mad dogs" of Bol- 
sheviki were deliberately conspiring to poison the other armies, 
to bring the rest of the world into their condition. It seemed 
to him monstrous that such efforts should be under way in the 
American army. How far had the thing gone ? The lieutenant 
did not know, and he was terrified, as men always are in the 
presence of the unknown. It was his plain duty, to which he 
had sworn himself, to stamp his heel upon the head of this snake ; 
but still he was deeply troubled. This Sergeant Higgins had 
been promoted for valor in France, and had been, in spite of his 
reckless tongue, a pretty decent subordinate. And behold, here 
he was, an active conspirator, a propagandist of sedition, a defi- 
ant and insolent traitor! 
They came to the jail, which had been constructed by the 
Tsar for the purpose of holding down the people of the region. 
It loomed, a gigantic stone bulk in the darkness ; and Jimrnie, 
who had preached in Local Leesville that America was worse 
than Russia, now learned that he had been mistaken Russia was 
exactly the same. 
They entered through a stone gateway, and a steel door 
opened before them and clanged behind them. At a desk sat a 
sergeant, and except that he was British, and that his uniform 
was brown instead of blue, it might have been Leesville, U. S. A. 
They took down Jimmie's name and address, and then Lieu- 
tenant Gannet asked: "Has Perkins come yet?" 
"Not yet, sir' was the reply; but at that moment the front 
door was opened, and there entered a big man, bundled in an 
overcoat which made him even bigger. From the first moment, 
Jimmie watched this man as a fascinated rabbit watches a snake. 
The little Socialist had had so much to do with policemen and 
detectives in his hunted life that he knew in a flash what he 
was "up against." 
This Perkins before the war had been an "operative" for a 
private detective agency what the workers contemptuously re- 
ferred to as a "sleuth." The government, having found itself 
in sudden need of much "sleuthing," had been forced to take 
what help it could get, without too close scrutiny. So now 
Perkins was a sergeant in the secret service ; and just as the car- 
penters were hammering nails as at home, and the surgeons were 
cutting flesh as at home, so Perkins was "sleuthing" as at home. 
"Well, sergeant ?" said the lieutenant. "What have you got ?" 
"I think I've got the story, sir." 
You could see the relief in Gannet's face ; and Jimmie's heart 
went down into his boots. 
"There's just one or two details I want to make sure about," 
continued Perkins. "I suppose you won't mind if I question 
this prisoner?" 
"Oh, not at all," said the other. He was relieved to be able 
to turn this difficult matter over to a man of decision, a pro- 
fessional man, who was used to such cases and knew how to 
handle them. 
"I'll report to you at once," said Perkins. 
"I'll wait," said the lieutenant. 
And Perkins took Jimmie's trembling arm in a grip like 
a vise, and marched him down a long stone corridor and down 
a flight of steps. On the way he picked up two other men, also 
in khaki, who followed him; the four passed through a series 
of underground passages, and entered a stone cell with a solid 
steel door, which they clanged behind them a sound that was 
like the knell of doom to poor Jimmie's terrified soul. And 
instantly Sergeant Perkins seized him by the shoulder and 
whirled him about, and glared into his eyes. "Now, you little 
son-of-a-bitch !" said he. 
Having been a detective in an American city, this man was 
familiar with the "third degree," whereby prisoners are led to 
tell what they know, and many things which they don't know, 
but which they know the police want them to tell. Of the 
other two men, one, Private Connor, had had this inquisition 
applied to him on more than one occasion. He was a burglar 
with a prison-record; but his last arrest had been in a middle 
Western town for taking part in a bar-room fight, and the judge 
didn't happen to know his record, and accepted his tearful plea, 
agreeing to suspend sentence provided the prisoner would enlist 
to fight for his country. 
The other man was named Grady, and had left a wife and 
three children in a tenement in "Hell's Kitchen," New York> 
to come to fight the Kaiser. He was a kind-hearted and decent 
Irishman, who had earned a hard living carrying bricks and 
mortar up a ladder ten hours a day ; but he was absolutely con- 
vinced that there existed, somewhere under his feet, a hell of 
brimstone and sulphur in which he would roast forever if he 
disobeyed the orders of those who were set in authority over him. 
Grady knew that there were certain wicked men, hating and 
slandering religion, and luring millions of souls into hell; they 
were called Socialists, or Anarchists, and must obviously be 
emissaries of Satan, so it was God's work to root them out and 
destroy them. Thus the Gradys have reasoned for a thousand 
years ; and thus in black dungeons underground they have turned 
the thumb-screws and pulled the levers of the rack. They do it 
still in many of the large cities of America, where superstition 
runs the police-force, in combination with liquor interests and 
public service corporations. 
VI 
"Now, you little son-of-a-bitch' said Perkins, "listen to me. 
"I been lookin' into this business of yours, and I got the names 
of most of them Bolsheviks you been dealing with. But I want 
to know them all, and I'm going to know see?" 
In spite of all his terror, Jimmie's heart leaped with exulta- 
tion. Perkins was lying ! He hadn't found out a thing ! He 
was just trying to bluff his prisoner, and to make his superior 
officer think he was a real "sleuth". He was doing what the 
police everywhere do trying to obtain by brutality what they 
cannot obtain by skill and intelligence. 
"Now, you're goin' to tell," continued the man. "You may 
think you can hold out, but you'll find it's no go. I'll tear you 
limb from limb if you make me I'll do just whatever I have 
to do to make you come through. You get me?" 
Jimmie nodded his head in a sort of spasm, but his effort 
to make a sound resulted only in a gulp in his throat. 
"You'll only make yourself a lot of pain if you delay, so 
you'd better be sensible. Now who are they?" 
"They ain't anybody. They " 
"So that's it? Well, we'll see." And the sergeant swung 
Jimmie about, so as to be at his back. "Hold him," he said, 
to the two men, and they grasped the prisoner's shoulders; the 
sergeant grasped his two wrists, which were handcuffed together, 
and began to force them up Jimmie's back. 
I "Ow !" cried Jimmie. "Stop ! Stop I" 
"Will you tell?" said the sergeant. 
"Stop!" cried Jimmie, wildly; and as the other pushed 
harder, he began to scream. "You'll break my arm ! The one 
that was wounded." 
"Wounded ?" said the sergeant. 
"It was broken by a bullet !" 
"The hell you say !" said the sergeant. 
"It's true ask anybody! The battle of Chatty Terry in 
France!" 
For just a moment the pressure on Jimmie's arms weak- 
ened ; but then the sergeant remembered that military men who 
have a career to make do not go to their superior officers with 
sentimentalities. "If you were wounded in battle," said the 
sergeant, "what you turnin' traitor for? Give me the names I 
want!" And he began to push again. 
It was the most horrible agony that Jimmie had ever 
dreamed of. His voice rose to a shriek: "Wait! Wait! 
Listen !" The torturer would relax the pressure and say : "The 
names ?" And when Jimmie did not give the names, he would 
press harder yet. Jimmie writhed convulsively, but the other 
two men held him as in a vise. He pleaded, he sobbed and 
moaned; but the walls of this dungeon had been made so that 
the owners of property outside would not be troubled by knowing 
what was being done in their interest. 
We go into museums and look at devilish instruments which 
men once employed for the torment of their fellows, and we 
shudder and congratulate ourselves that we live in more humane 
days; quite overlooking the fact that it does not need elaborate 
Instruments to inflict pain on the human body. Any man can 
do it to another, if he has him helpless. The thing that ia 
needed is the motive that is to say, some form of privilege 
established by law, and protecting itself against rebellion. 
"Tell me the names I" said the sergeant. He had Jimmied 
two hands forced up the back of his neck, and was lying over on 
.Jimmie, pushing, pushing. Jimmie was blinded with the pain, 
his whole being convulsed. It was too horrible, it could not be ! 
Anything, anything to stop it! A voice shrieked in his soul: 
"Tell ! Tell !" But then he thought of the little Jew, pitiful, 
trusting no, no, he would not tell! He would never tell! 
But then what was he to do? Endure this horror? He could 
not endure it it was monstrous ! 
He would writhe and scream, babble and plead and sob. 
Perhaps there have been men who have endured torture with 
dignity, but Jimmie was not one of these. Jimmie was abject, 
Jimmie was frantic ; he did anything, everything he could think 
of save one thing, the thing that Perkins kept telling him to do. 
This went on until the sergeant was out of breath : that being 
one disadvantage of the primitive hand-processes of torture to 
which American police-officials have been reduced by political 
eentimentalism. The torturer lost his temper, and began to 
shake and twist at Jimmie's arms, so that Connor had to warn 
him he didn't want to break anything, of course. 
So Perkins said, "Put his head down." They bent Jimmie 
over till his head was on the ground, and Grady tied Jimmie's 
legs to keep them quiet, and Connor held his neck fast, and 
Perkins put his foot on the handcuffs and pressed down. By 
this means he could continue the torture while standing erect 
and breathing freely, a great relief to him. "Now, damn you !" 
said he. "I can stay here all night. Come through I" 
VII 
Jimmie thought that each moment of pain was the worst. 
He had never had any idea that pain could endure so long, could 
burn with such a white and searing flame. He ground his teeth 
together, he chewed his tongue through, he ground his face upon 
the stones. Anything for a respite even a new kind of pain, 
that he might forget the screaming ache in his shoulders and 
elbows and wrists. But there was no respite; his spirit was 
whirled and beaten about in bottomless abysses, and from their 
depths he heard the voice of Perkins, as from a far-off mountain 
top: "Come through! Come through or you'll stay like this 
all night !" 
But Jimmie did not stay like that; for Perkins got tired 
of standing on one foot, and he knew that the Lieutenant was 
pacing about upstairs, wondering why it took so long to ask a 
few questions. Jimmie heard the voice from the far-off moun- 
tain-top : "This won't do ; we'll have to string him up for a bit." 
And he took from his pocket a strong cord, and tied one end 
about Jimmie's two thumbs, and ran the other end over an iron 
ring in the wall of the dungeon put there by some agent of the 
Tsar for use in the cause of democracy. The other two men 
lifted Jimmie till his feet were off the ground, and then made 
fast the cord, and Jimmie hung with his full weight from his 
thumbs, still handcuffed behind his back. 
So now he was no trouble to the three jailors except that 
he was an ugly-looking object, with his face purple and con- 
vulsed, and his bloody tongue being chewed up. They turned 
him about, with his face against the stones, and then they had 
nothing but the sounds of him, which had become feebler, but 
were none the less disagreeable, a babbling and gabbling, con- 
tinuous and yet unrhythmic, as if made by a whole menagerie of 
tormented animals. 
Still the minutes passed, and Perkins' irritation grew. He 
wouldn't have minded for himself, for his nerves were strong, 
he had handled a good many of the I. W. W. in the old days 
back home ; but he had promised to get the information, and so 
his reputation was at stake. He would prod Jimmie and say: 
"Will you tell?" And when Jimmie still refused, finally he 
said, "We'll have to try the water-cure. Connor, get me a 
couple of pitchers of water and a good sized funnel." 
"Yes, sir," said the ex-burglar, and went out ; and meantime 
Perkins addressed his victim again. "Listen, you little hell- 
pup," said he. "I'm going to do something new, something 
that'll break you sure. I been with the army in the Philip- 
pines, and seen it worked there many's the time, and I never 
yet seen anybody that could stand it. We're going to fill you 
up with water ; and we'll leave you to soak for a couple of hours, 
and then we'll put in some more, and we'll keep that up day 
and night till you come through. Now, you better think it 
over and speak quick, before we get the water in, because it 
ain't so easy to get out." 
Jimmie lay with his face against the wall, and the agony 
of his tortured thumbs was like knives twisted into him; he 
listened to these threats, and heard again the cry in his soul 
for respite at any hazard. 
Jimmie was fighting a battle, the sternest ever fought by 
man the battle of conscience against the weakness of the flesh. 
To tell or not to tell? The poor tormented body shrieked, 
Tell ! But conscience, in a feeble voice, gasped, over and over and 
over, No ! No ! No ! It had to keep on insisting, because the bat- 
tle was never over, never won. Each moment was a new agony, 
and therefore a fresh temptation; each argument had to be re- 
peated without end. Why should he not tell? Because Kalen- 
kin had trusted him, and Kalenkin was a comrade. But maybe 
Kalenkin was gone now, maybe he had died of one of his cough- 
ing spells, maybe he had heard of Jimmie's arrest and made 
his escape. Maybe they would not torture Kalenkin as they 
had Jimmie, because he was not a soldier; they might just put 
him in jail and keep him there, and others would do the work. 
Maybe 
And so on. But the feeble voice whispered in the soul of 
Jimmie Higgins: You are the revolution. You are social jus- 
tice, struggling for life in this world. You are humanity, 
setting its face to the light, striving to reach a new goal, to 
put behind it an old horror. You are Jesus on the cross; and 
if you fail, the world goes back, perhaps forever. You must 
hold out! You must bear this! And this! And this! You 
must bear everything forever as long as needs be ! You must 
not "come through" ! 
VIII 
Connor came back with his pitchers of water and his funnel. 
They took Jimmie down oh, the blessed relief to his thumbs ! 
and laid him on the ground, with his racked and swollen hands 
still handcuffed under him; and Grady sat on his feet, and 
Connor sat on his chest, and Perkins forced the funnel down 
his throat and poured in the water. 
Jimmie had to swallow, of course; he had to gulp desper- 
ately, to keep from being choked; and pretty soon the water 
filled him up, and then began the most fearful agony he had 
yet endured. It was like the pain of the ether-gas, only in- 
finitely worse. He was blown out like a balloon; his insides 
were about to burst; his whole body was one sore boil and 
Connor, sitting on his stomach, sat a little harder now and 
then, to make sure the water got jostled into place. Jimmie 
could not scream, but his face turned purple and the cords stood 
out on his forehead and neck; he began to strangle, and this 
was worst of all ; every convulsion of his body stabbed him with 
ten thousand knives. 
Jimmie had talked with a number of the "wobblies" who 
had this "water-cure," a regular device of police-authorities in 
ismall towns and villages. It is simple and cheap and cleanly; 
it leaves no blood and no bruises to be exhibited in court; 
it muzzles the victim, so that his screams cannot be heard 
through jail-windows therefore a simple denial covers it com- 
pletely. "Wild Bill" had had this treatment, "Strawberry" 
Curran had had it several times. But oh, thought Jimmie, it 
could not be like this no human being had ever endured any- 
thing like this ! Poor Jimmie was not learned in history, and 
did not realise that men have endured everything that other 
men can inflict. They will continue to endure it, so long as 
privilege is written in the law, and allowed to use the law in its 
unholy cause. 
So the battle of the ages went on in the soul of Jimmie 
Higgins. He was a little runt of a Socialist machinist, with 
bad teeth and gnarled hands, and he could do nothing sublime 
or inspiring, nothing even dignified; in fact, it would be hard 
for any one to do anything dignified, when he lies on the floor 
with a gallon or two of water in him, and one man sitting on 
his legs and another on his stomach, and another jamming a 
funnel into his mouth. All Jimmie could do was to fight the 
fearful fight in the deeps of him, and not lose it. "Lift your 
knee if you are ready to tell," Perkins would say; and Grady 
would raise up, so that Jimmie could lift his knee if he wanted 
to; but Jimmie's knee did not lift. 
Far down in the deeps of Jimmie Higgins' tormented soul, 
something strange was happening. Lying there bound and help- 
less, despairing, writhing with agony, half insane with the ter- 
ror of it, Jimmie called for help and help came to him; that 
help which penetrates all dungeon walls, and cheats all jailors 
and torturers; that Power which breaks all bars of steel and 
bars of fear 
"Thou has great allies; 
Thy friends are exultations, agonies, 
And love, and man's unconquerable mind!" 
In the soul of Jimmie Higgins was heard that Voice which 
speaks above the menaces and commands of tyranny; which 
says: I am Man, and I prevail. I conquer the flesh, I trample 
upon the body and rise above it. I defy its imprisonments, its 
