                            *MODUS VIVENDI*
Smith’s luggage and mine, and my other effects—trunks, boxes, and
crates—arrived very early the next morning: and several large, sweating
Swiss staggered up the stairs with the impedimenta until both they and
their job were finished.
When I left New York, not knowing how long this business of my
ridiculous inheritance might detain me in Switzerland, I packed several
trunks with clothing and several crates with those familiar and
useful—or useless—objets-d’art which for many years had formed a
harmless and agreeable background for my more or less blameless domestic
career in New York.
Rugs, curtains, furniture, sofa-pillows, books, a clock mantel set,
framed and unframed pictures and photographs including the O’Ryan
coat-of-arms—all this was the sort of bachelor stuff that Smith and I
disinterred from the depths of trunks, crates, and boxes, and lugged
about from corner to corner trying effects and combinations.
Before we had concluded our task I think he had no opinion at all of me
as an interior decorator. Which revealed considerable insight on his
part. And although I explained to him that interior decorators became so
fed up on gorgeous and sumptuous effects that they themselves preferred
to live amid simpler surroundings reminiscent of the Five and Ten Cent
Store, he remained unconvinced.
"It’s like a lady-clerk in a candy shop," I insisted. "She never eats
the stuff she sells.  It’s the same with me.  I am surfeited with
magnificence.  I crave the humble what-not.  I long for the Victorian.
I need it."
He gazed in horror at a framed picture of my grandfather the Admiral.
"Oh God," he said, "what are we to do with this old bird?"
Intensely annoyed I took it from him and hung it over my mantel.  It
wasn’t a Van Dyck, I admit, but it demanded no mental effort on my part.
One can live in peace with such pictures.
"Some day, Smith," said I, "you’ll understand that the constant
contemplation of true Art is exhausting. A man can’t sleep in a room
full of Rubens. When I put on my dressing gown and slippers and light a
cigarette what I want is relaxation, not Raphael.  And these things that
I own permit me to relax.  Why," I added earnestly, "they might as well
not be there at all so little do they distract my attention.  That’s the
part of art suitable for domestic purposes,—something that you never
look at, or, if you do, you don’t want to look at it again."
He said: "I couldn’t sleep here.  I couldn’t get away from that old bird
over the mantel.  However, it’s your room."
"It is."
"Doubtless you like it."
"Doubtless."
"On me," he remarked, "it has the effect of a Jazz band."  And he went
into his own apartment.  For half an hour or so I fussed and pottered
about, nailing up bunches of photographs fanwise on the walls, arranging
knickknacks, placing brackets for curtain-poles and shoving the poles
through the brass rings supporting the curtains.  They had once belonged
to the Admiral.  They were green and blue with yellow birds on them.
After I finished draping them, I discovered that I had hung one pair
upside down.  But the effect was not so bad.  In domestic art one
doesn’t want everything exactly balanced.  Reiteration is exasperating;
repetition aggravating to the nerves.  A chef-d’oeuvre is a priceless
anæsthetic: duplicated it loses one hundred per cent of its soporific
value.  I was glad I had hung one pair of curtains upside down.  I went
into Smith’s room.  He was shaving and I had him at my mercy.
"The principal element of art," said I to Smith, "is beauty—or rather,
perhaps, the principal element of beauty is art—I am not very clear at
this moment which it is.  But I do know that beauty is never noisy.
Calm and serenity reign where there is no chattering repetition of
effects.  Therefore, as an interior decorator, I always take liberties
with the stereotyped rules of decoration.  I jumble periods.  I
introduce bold innovations.  For example: Old blue plates, tea-pots and
sugar-bowls I do not relegate to the pantry or the china-closet where
they belong.  No.  I place them upon a Louis XV commode or a Victorian
cabinet, or on a mantel.  A clock calms the irritating monotony of a
side-board. A book-case in the bath-room produces a surprisingly calm
effect amid towels and tooth-mugs.  A piano in the dining room gives
tone ... if played. And so, in my profession, Smith, I am always
searching for the calm harmony of the inharmonious, the unity of the
unconventional, and the silence of the inexplicable.  And, if I may
venture to say so, I usually attain it.  This is not a business card."
And having sufficiently punished Smith, I returned to my own room.
Lovingly, and with that unerring knowledge born of instinct, I worked
away quite happily all the morning decorating my room, and keeping one
eye on Smith to see that he didn’t drift toward the kitchen. He betrayed
a tendency that way once or twice but desisted.  I think he was afraid I
might decorate his room in his absence.  He need not have worried: I
wanted all my things in my own room.
While I was busy hanging some red and pink curtains in my dressing-room
and tacking a yellowish carpet to the floor—a definitely advanced scheme
of color originating with me—I heard voices in the rear court and, going
to the window, beheld my consignment of brand new servants arriving from
Berne by diligence.
Smith, who had come up beside me to peer out through the blinds, uttered
an exclamation.
"That girl in Swiss peasant dress!—she looks like the twin sister to
your cook!"
"She is her sister.  But she isn’t nearly as pretty."
"She’s infinitely prettier!" he asserted excitedly. "She’s a real
beauty!—for a peasant."
I corrected him in my most forbearing manner: "What you are trying to
convey to me," said I, kindly, "is that the girl is flamboyantly
picturesque, but scarcely to be compared to Thusis for unusual or
genuine beauty.  That’s what you really mean, Smith; but you lack
vocabulary."
"Whatever I lack," he retorted warmly, "I mean exactly what I said!  For
a peasant, that girl is beautiful to an emphatic degree,—far more so
than her sister Thusis.  Be kind enough to get that."
I smiled patiently and pointed out to him that the hair of the newcomer
was merely light golden, not that magnificent Venetian gold-red of
Thusis’ hair; and that her eyes were that rather commonplace violet hue
so much admired by cheap novelists.  I don’t know why he should have
become so animated about what I was striving to explain to him: he said
with unnecessary heat: "That’s what I’m trying to drive into your Irish
head!  That girl is beautiful, and her red-headed sister is merely
good-looking.  Is my vocabulary plain?"
I began to lose my temper: "Smith," said I, "you fell for Thusis before
I noticed her at all——"
"I merely called your attention to the resemblance between her and your
photograph of ’The Laughing Girl.’ And I did not ’fall for her’—as you
put it with truly American elegance——"
"Confound it!" I exclaimed, "what do you mean by ’American elegance’?
Don’t hand me that, Smith—you and your ’My girl’s a corker!’  Of the two
of us you’d be picked for a Yankee before I’d be. And I have my own
ideas on that subject, too—you and your Sagas about—
    "’She plays the races’——"
"In my travels," he said, looking me straight in the eye, "it has
happened that I have picked up a few foreign folk-songs.  You understand
me, of course."
"Yes," I replied amiably.  "I think I get you, Smith.  Whatever you say
goes; and you’re a Viking as far as I’m concerned."
The slightest shadow of a grin lurked on his lips. "Good old Michael,"
he said, patting me on the shoulder.  And, reconciled, we looked out of
the window again in brotherly accord.  Just in time to see the
golden-haired sister of Thusis rise and jump lightly from the wagon to
the grass.
"Did you see that!" he demanded excitedly.  "Did you ever see such grace
in a human being?  Did you, Michael?"
What was the use?  I saw nothing supernaturally extraordinary in that
girl or in her flying leap.  Of course she was attractive in her trim,
supple, dainty, soubrette-like way.  But as for comparing her to
Thusis!——
"Her name’s Clelia," I remarked, avoiding further discussion.  "She’s to
do the rooms; Thusis waits on table and runs our establishment; and that
other girl down there—her name is Josephine Vannis, I believe—she is to
cook for us.  You know," I added, "she also is very handsome in her own
way...."
He nodded without interest.  She seemed to be of the Juno type, tall,
dark-haired, with velvet eyes and intensely white skin,—too
overwhelmingly classical to awaken my artistic enthusiasm.  In fact she
rather scared me.
"And to think that six-foot goddess is my new cook," said I, rather
awed.  I took another intent survey of the big, healthy, vigorous,
handsome girl; and I determined to keep out of her kitchen and avoid all
culinary criticism.
"She’d not hesitate to hand us a few with a rolling-pin," I remarked.
"Juno was celebrated for her quick temper, Shan, so don’t find fault
with your victuals."
"No," he said very earnestly, "I won’t."
My new gardener was now carrying in the assorted luggage,—bundles and
boxes of sorts done up in true peasant fashion with cords.
He seemed to be a sturdy, bright, good-looking young fellow with keen
black eyes and a lively cock-sure manner.
"He’ll raise jealousies below stairs," remarked Smith.  "That young
fellow is the beau ideal of all peasant girls.  He’ll be likely to raise
the deuce below stairs with Thusis and Juno."
Somehow or other the idea of such rustic gallantry did not entirely
please me.  Nor did Smith’s reference to Thusis and his cool exclusion
of Clelia.
"I don’t believe Thusis would care for his type," said I carelessly.
"And if he gets too—too——"  I hesitated, not exactly knowing what I had
meant to say.
"Sure," nodded Smith; "fire him if he bothers Clelia."
I dimly realized then that I didn’t care whether he cut up with Clelia
or not.  In fact, I almost hoped he would.
A little later when I was in my room, alone, and agreeably busy, there
sounded a low and very discreet knocking at my door.  Instantly my
pulse, for some unexplained reason, became loud and irregular.
"Come in," said I, laying aside my work—some verses I had been
composing—trifles—trifles.
Thusis came in.
As the hostile Trojans rose unanimously to their feet when Helen
entered—rose in spite of their disapproval—so I got up instinctively and
placed a chair for her.  She merely dropped me a curtsy and remained
standing.
"Please be seated," said I, looking at her with uneasy suspicion.
"Monsieur O’Ryan forgets himself," she protested in the softest and most
winningly demure of voices. But I saw the very devil laughing at me out
of her gray eyes.
"I don’t know why a man should receive his servants standing," said I.
"Sit down," I added coldly, seating myself.
"Pardon, but I could not venture to seat myself in Monsieur’s
presence——"
Perfectly conscious of the subtle mockery in her voice and manner, I
told her sharply to be seated and explain her errand.  She curtsied
again—a most devilishly impudent little curtsey—and seated herself with
the air of a saint on the loose.
"My thisther Clelia, and my friend Jothephine Vannith, and Raoul
Dethpreth requetht the honor of rethpectfully prethenting themthelves to
Monsieur’s graciouth conthideration," she said with an intentional lisp
that enraged me.
"Very well," I replied briefly.  "You may go back and get rid of your
lisp, and then explain to them that you are to be waitress and general
housekeeper here, and that they are to take their orders from me through
you."
"Yes, Monsieur."
I don’t think she relished my dry bluntness for I saw a slight color
gather in her cheeks.
I thought to myself that I’d come very close to spoiling the girl by my
silliness in the cellar.  I’d made a fool of myself, but I’d do it no
more in spite of her heavenly resemblance to my photograph.
"That will be all at present, Thusis," I said coldly. "Come back in half
an hour for orders.  And see that you wear a clean apron."
Her lovely face was quite red as she passed out, forgetting to curtsey.
As for my own emotions they were mixed.
One thing was certain; there was going to be a show-down between Thusis
and me before very long.
If she were indeed the peasant girl she pretended to be, she’d recover
her balance when I did, and learn her proper place.  If she were,
perhaps, a child of the bourgeoisie—some educated and superior young
girl compelled to take service through family misfortune—and I now
entertained no further doubt that this was really the case—she had
nobody but herself to blame for my present attitude.
But!—but if, by any inexplicable chance, her social circumstances were,
or had once been, even better than bourgeoise, then the girl was a
political agent in masquerade.  But, whoever she was, she had no
business to presume on her wit and insolent beauty to amuse herself at
my expense.  And if she had really been sent by the Swiss police into my
household to keep an eye on me she was going about it in a silly and
stupid manner.
For such surveillance I didn’t care a pewter penny.  Spies had lagged
after me ever since I entered Switzerland.  It was rather amusing than
otherwise.
But, as far as Thusis was concerned, I now decided that, no matter what
she was or had been, she had voluntarily become my servant; and I
intended that she should not again forget that fact.
As I sat there at my desk, grimly planning discipline for Thusis, I
chanced to look up at the photograph of "The Laughing Girl"; and stern
thoughts melted like frost at sunrise.
How amazingly, how disturbingly the lovely pictured features reminded me
of Thusis!
The resemblance, of course, must be pure accident, but what an
astonishing coincidence!
Musing there at my desk, possessed by dreamy and pleasing thoughts, I
gradually succumbed to the spell which my treasured photograph
invariably wove for me.
And I unlocked my desk and took out my verses.
They had been entitled "To Thusis."  This I had scratched out and under
the canceled dedication I had written: "To a Photograph."
I had quite forgotten that I had told Thusis to report for orders in
half an hour: I was deeply, sentimentally absorbed in my poem.  Then
there came a low knocking; and at the mere prospect of again
encountering my exceedingly impudent housekeeper I experienced a little
shock of emotion which started my heart thumping about in a most silly
and exasperating manner.
"Come in!" I said angrily.
She entered.  I kept my seat with an effort.
"Well," said I in an impatient voice, "what is it now?"
Thusis looked at me intently for a moment, then the little devils that
hid in her gray eyes suddenly laughed at me, totally discrediting the
girl’s respectful and almost serious face with its red mouth slightly
drooping.
"Monsieur has orders for the household?" she inquired in her sweet,
grave voice of a child.
That floored me.  I had spoken about giving my orders through her.  I
didn’t know what orders to give.
"Certainly," said I,—"hum-hum!  Let me see.—Let—me—see," I repeated.
"Yes—certainly—the orders must be given—hum-hum!——"
But what the devil I was to order I hadn’t the vaguest idea.
"We’ll have luncheon at one," I said, desperately. She made no
observation.  I grew redder.
"We’ll dine, too," I added.  Her gray eyes mocked me but her mouth
drooped respectfully.
"For further orders," said I, "c-come b-back in half an hour.  No, don’t
do that!  Wait a moment. I—I really don’t know what sort of an
establishment I have here.  Hadn’t I better make a tour of inspection?"
"Monsieur will please himself."
"I think I’d better inspect things."
"What things, Monsieur?"
"The—the linen press—er—the batterie-de-cuisine—all that sort of
thing.  Do you think I’d better do it, Thusis?"
"Would Monsieur know any more about them if he inspects these things?"
she inquired so guilelessly, so smilingly, that I surrendered then and
there.
"Thusis," I said, "I don’t know anything about such matters.  They bore
me.  Be a nice child and give what orders are necessary.  Will you?"
"If Monsieur wishes."
"I do wish it.  Please—take full charge and run this ranch for me and
bring me the bills.  You see I trust you, Thusis, although you have not
been very respectful to me."
"I am sorry, Monsieur," she said with a tragic droop of her lovely
mouth.  But her eyes belied her.
"Thusis?"
"Monsieur?"
"I won’t ask you who you are——"
"Merci, M’sieu."
"Don’t interrupt me.  What I am going to ask you, is, why do you
continually and secretly make fun of me——"
"M’sieu!"
"You do!"
"I, M’sieu?"
"Yes, you, Thusis.  Always there is a hint of mockery in your
smile,—always the hidden amusement as though, in me, you find something
ridiculous——"
"Please!——"
"—Something secretly and delightfully absurd——"
"But you know you are funny," she said, looking a trifle scared at her
own temerity.
"What!" I demanded angrily.
"Please be just, Mr. O’Ryan.  I minded my own business until you tempted
me."
That was perfectly true but I denied it.
"You know," she said, "when a man finds a girl attractive the girl
always knows it, even when she’s a servant....  And certain
circumstances made it much more amusing than you realize....  I mean to
be respectful.  I am your servant....  But you know very well that it is
funny."
"What is funny?"
"The circumstances.  You found me attractive. It mortified you.  And the
way you took it was intensely amusing to me."
"Why?"
"Because you are you; and I am I.  Because the fact that you found your
cook attractive horrified you.  That was intensely funny to me.  And
when, waiving the degradation, you actually attempted to kiss your own
cook——"
Laughter burst from her lips in a silvery shower of rippling notes which
enchanted and infuriated me at the same time.
I waited, very red, to control my voice; then I got up and set a chair
for her.  And she dropped onto it without protest.
"What are you doing in my household?" I asked drily.
At that her laughter ceased and she gave me a straight sweet look.
"Don’t you really know?"
"Of course not.  You’re an agent of some sort. That’s evident.  Are you
here to watch me?"
"Dear Mr. O’Ryan," she said lightly, "have I been at any pains to
deceive you?  I’m not really a servant; you learned that very easily.
And I let you learn it—"  She laughed:—"and it was a very pretty
compliment I paid you when I let you learn it."
"I don’t understand you," I said.
"It’s very simple.  My name really is Thusis; I wish to remain in your
employment.  So do my friends.  We will prove good servants.  You shall
be most comfortable,—you and your amusing friend, Mr. Smith—the
Norwegian."
I smiled in spite of my suspicion and perplexity, and Thusis smiled too,
such a gay little confidential smile that I could not resist the occult
offer of confidence that it very plainly implied.
"You are not here to keep tabs on me?" I demanded.
"You very nice young man, of course not!"
"Do you really think I’m nice, Thusis?"
"I think you’re adorable!"
The rush of emotion to the head made me red and dizzy.  I had never been
talked to that way by a young girl.  I didn’t know it was done.
And another curious thing about this perfectly gay and unembarrassed
eulogy of hers, she said it as frankly and spontaneously as she might
have spoken to another girl or to an attractive child: there was
absolutely no sex consciousness about her.
"Are you going to let us remain and be your very faithful and diligent
servants?" she asked, mischievously amused at the shock she had
administered.
"Thusis," I said, "it’s going to be rather difficult for me to treat you
as a servant.  And if your friends are of the same quality——"
"It’s perfectly easy," she insisted.  "If we presume, correct us.  If we
are slack, punish us.  Be masculine and exacting; be bad tempered about
your food—"  She laughed delightfully—"Raise the devil with us if we
misbehave."
I didn’t believe I could do that and said so; and she turned on me that
bewildering smile and sat looking at me very intently, with her white
hands clasped in her lap.
"You don’t think we’re a band of robbers conspiring to chloroform you
and Mr. Smith some night and make off with your effects?" she inquired.
We both laughed.
"You’re very much puzzled, aren’t you, Mr. O’Ryan," she continued.
"I am, indeed."
"But you’re so nice—so straight and clean yourself—that you’d give me
the benefit of any doubt, wouldn’t you?"
"Yes."
"That’s because you’re a sportsman.  That’s because you play all games
squarely."  Her face became serious; her gray eyes met mine and seemed
to look far into them.
"Your country is neutral, isn’t it?" she said.
"Yes."
"You are not."
"I have my ideas."
"And ideals," she added.
"Yes, I have them still, Thusis."
"So have I," she said.  "I am trying to live up to them.  If you will
let me."
"I’ll even help you——"
"No!  Just let me alone.  That is all I ask of you."  Her youthful face
grew graver.  "But that is quite enough to ask of you.  Because by
letting me alone you are incurring danger to yourself.
"Why do you tell me?"
"Because I wish to be honest with you.  If you retain me as your servant
and accept me and my friends as such,—even if you live here quietly and
blamelessly, obeying the local and Federal laws and making no inquiries
concerning me or my three friends,—yet, nevertheless, you may find
yourself in very serious trouble before many days."
"Political trouble?"
"All kinds of trouble, Mr. O’Ryan."
There was a silence; she sat there with slender fingers tightly
interlocked as though under some sort of nervous tension, but the faint
hint of a smile in the corners of her mouth—which seemed to be part of
her natural expression—remained.
She said: "And more than that: if you let us remain as your servants, we
shall trust to you and to Mr. Smith that neither one of you by look or
word or gesture would ever convey to anybody the slightest hint that I
and my friends are not exactly what we appear to be—your household
servants."
"Thusis," said I, "what the deuce are you up to?"
"What am I up to?" She laughed outright:—"Let me see!  First—" counting
on her fingers, "I am trying to find a way to live up to my ideals;
second, I am going to try to bring happiness to many, many people;
third, I am prepared to sacrifice myself, my friends, my nearest and
dearest." ... She lifted her clear eyes: "I am quite ready to sacrifice
you, too," she said.
I smiled: "That would cost you very little," I said.
There was another short silence.  The girl looked at me with a curious
intentness as though mentally appraising me—trying to establish in her
mind any value I might represent to her—if any.
"It’s like an innocent bystander being hit by a bullet in a revolution,"
she murmured: "it’s a pity: but it is unavoidable, sometimes."
"I represent this theoretical and innocent bystander?"
"I’m afraid you do, Mr. O’Ryan; the chances are that you’ll get hurt."
A perfectly inexplicable but agreeable tingling sensation began to
invade me, amounting almost to exhilaration.  Was it the Irish in me,
subtly stirred, by the chance of a riot?  Was it a possible opportunity
to heave a brick, impartially and with Milesian enthusiasm?
"Thusis," said I, "there is only one question I must ask you to answer."
"I know what it is."
"What?"
"You are going to remind me that, to-day, the whole world is divided
into two parts; that the greatest war of all times is being waged
between the forces of light and of darkness.  And you are going to ask
me where I stand."
"I am."
The girl rose; so did I.  Then she stepped forward, took my right hand
and rested her other upon it.
"I stand for light, for the world’s freedom, for the liberties of the
weaker, for the self-determination of all peoples.  I stand for their
right to the pursuit of happiness.  I stand for the downfall of all
tyranny—the tyranny of the mob as well as the tyranny of all autocrats.
That is where I stand, Mr. O’Ryan.... Where do you stand?"
"Beside you."
She dropped my hand with an excited little laugh:
"I was certain of that.  In Berne I learned all about you.  I took no
chances in coming here.  I took none in being frank with you."  She
began to laugh again, mischievously: "Perhaps I took chances in being
impertinent to you.  There is a dreadful and common vein of frivolity in
me.  I’m a little reckless, too.  I adore absurd situations, and the
circumstances—when you unwillingly discovered that I was
attractive—appealed to me irresistibly. And I am afraid I was silly
enough—common enough—malicious enough to thoroughly enjoy it.... But,"
she added naïvely, "you gave me rather a good scare when you threatened
to kiss me."
"I’m glad of that," said I with satisfaction.
"Of course," she remarked, "that would have been the climax of
absurdity."
"Would it?"
"Certainly."
"Why?"
"Fancy such a nice young man kissing his cook in the cellar."
"That isn’t what you meant."
"Isn’t it?" she asked airily.
"No."
"What did I mean then, Mr. O’Ryan?"
"I don’t know," said I thoughtfully.
She gave me one of her smiling but searching looks, in which there
seemed a hint of apprehension.  Then, apparently satisfied by her
scrutiny, she favored me with a bewitching smile in which I thought to
detect a slight trace of relief.
"You will keep me, then?" she asked.
"Yes."
"Thank you!"
She stretched out her beautiful hand impulsively: I took it.
"Thanks—and good-by," she said a trifle gravely, Then, with a shadow of
the smile still lingering: "Good-by: because, from now on, it is to be
master and servant.  We must both remember that."
I was silent.
"You will remember, won’t you?" she said—the laughter flashed in her
eyes:—"especially if we ever happen to be in the cellar together?"
I said, forcing a smile and my voice not quite steady: "Suppose we
finish that scene, now, Thusis?"
"Good heavens!" she said:—"and the Admiral watching us!"  She drew her
hand from mine and pointed at the picture over my mantel.
"I’m afraid of that man," she said.  "The cellar is less terrifying——"
"Thusis!"
But she laughed and slipped through the door. "Good-by, Don Michael!"
she called back softly from the stairs.
I walked back slowly to the center of my room and for a long time I
stood there quite motionless, staring fixedly at the Admiral.
                                  *V*
                             *AN ODD SONG*
"There’s one thing certain," thought I; "my household personnel is
altogether too pulchritudinous for a man like Smith, and it begins to
worry me."
Considerably disturbed in my mind I reconnoitered Smith’s rooms, and
found him, as I suspected, loitering there on pretense of re-arranging
the contents of his bureau-drawers.
Now Smith had no legitimate business there; it was Clelia’s hour to do
his rooms.  But, as I say, I already had noticed his artless way of
hanging about at that hour, and several times during the last two weeks
I had encountered him conversing with the girl while she, her blonde
hair bound up in a beguiling dust-cap, and otherwise undeniably
fetching, leaned at ease on her broom and appeared quite willing to be
cornered and conversed with.
My advent always galvanized this situation; Clelia instantly became busy
with her broom and duster, and Smith usually pretended he had been
inquiring of Clelia where I might be found.
He attempted the same dishonesty now, and, with every symptom of
delight, cordially hailed me and inquired where I’d been keeping myself
since breakfast.
"I’ve been out doors," said I coldly, "where I hoped—if I did not really
expect—to find you."
This sarcasm put a slight crimp in his assurance, and he accompanied me
out with docile alacrity, which touched me.
"It’s too good a household to spoil," said I.  "A little innocent
gaiety—a bit of persiflage en passant—that doesn’t interfere with
discipline.  But this loitering about the vicinity of little Clelia’s
too brief skirts is almost becoming a habit with you."
"She’s a nice girl," returned Smith, vaguely.
"Surely.  And you’re a very nice young man; but you know as well as I do
that we can’t arrange our social life to include the circle below
stairs."
"You mean, in the event of travelers arriving, they might misconstrue
such a democracy?"
"Certainly, they’d misjudge it.  We couldn’t explain why our cook was
playing the piano in the living-room or why Clelia laid aside her
dust-pan for a cup of tea with us at five, could we?"
"Or why Thusis and you went trout fishing together," he added
pleasantly.
A violent blush possessed my countenance.  So he was aware of that
incident!  He had gone to Zurich that day.  I hadn’t mentioned it.
"Smith," said I, "these are war times.  To catch fish is to conserve
food.  Under no other circumstances——"
"I understand, of course!  Two can catch more fish than one.  Which
caught it?"
"Thusis," I admitted.  "Thusis happened to know where these Swiss trout
hide and how to catch them.  Naturally I was glad to avail myself of her
knowledge."
"Very interesting.  You need no further instruction, I fancy."
"To become proficient," said I, "another lesson or two—possibly——"  I
paused out near the fountain to stoop over and break off a daisy.  From
which innocent blossom, absent-mindedly, I plucked the snowy petals one
by one as I sauntered along beside Smith.
Presently he began to mutter to himself.  At first I remained sublimely
unconscious of what he was murmuring, then I caught the outrageous
words: "Elle m’aime—un peu—beaucoup—passablement—pas-du-tout——"
"What’s that?" I demanded, glaring at him. "What are you gabbling
about?"
He seemed surprised at my warmth.  I hurled the daisy from me; we turned
and strode back in hostile silence toward the bottling house.
My farmer, Raoul Despres, was inside and the door stood open.  We could
hear the humming of the dynamo.  Evidently, obeying my orders of
yesterday, he had gone in to look over and report upon the condition of
the plant with a view to resuming business where my recent uncle had
left off.
We could see his curly black head, and athletic figure inside the low
building.  As he prowled hither and thither investigating the machinery
he was singing blithely to himself:
    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    You have done a heap of harm—
    You and yours and all your friends!
    Now you’ll have to make amends."
Smith and I looked at each other in blank perplexity.
"That’s a remarkable song," I said at last.
"Very," said Smith.  We halted.  The dynamo droned on like a giant bee.
Raoul continued to sing as he moved around in the bottling house, and
the words he sang came to us quite plainly:
    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    Sacking city, town and farm!
    You, your children and your friends,
    All will come to rotten ends!"
"Smith," said I, "who on earth do you suppose he means by
’Crack-brain-cripple-arm’?"
"Surely," mused Smith, "he could not be referring to the All-highest of
Hunland....  Could he?"
"Impossible," said I.  We went into the bottling house.  And the song of
Raoul ceased.
It struck me, as he turned and came toward us with his frank, quick
smile and his gay and slightly jaunty bearing, that he had about him
something of that nameless allure of a soldier of France.
"But of course you are Swiss," I said to him with a trace of a grin
twitching at my lips.
"Of course, Monsieur," he replied innocently.
"Certainly....  And, how about that machinery, Raoul?"
"It functions, Monsieur.  A little rust—nothing serious.  The torrent
from the Bec de l’Empereur runs the dynamo; the spring flows full.
Listen!"
We listened.  Through the purring of the dynamo the bubbling melody of
the famous mineral spring was perfectly audible.
"How many bottles have we?" I asked.
"In the unopened cases a hundred thousand.  In odd lots, quart size,
twenty thousand more."
"Corks?  Boxes?"
"Plenty."
"Labels?  Straw?"
"Bales, Monsieur."
"And all the machinery works?"
For answer he picked up a quart bottle and placed it in a porcelain
cylinder.  Then he threw a switch; the bottle was filled automatically,
corked, labeled, sheathed in straw and deposited in a straw-lined box.
"Fine!" I said.  "When you have a few moments to spare from the farm you
can fill a few dozen cases.  And you, too, Smith, when time hangs heavy
on your hands, it might amuse you to drop in and start bottling spring
water for me—instead of rearranging your bureau drawers."
The suggestion did not seem to attract him.  He said he’d enjoy doing it
but that he did not comprehend machinery.
I smiled at him and made up my mind that he’d not spend his spare time
in Clelia’s neighborhood.
"Raoul," said I, "that was an interesting song you were singing when we
came in."
"What song, Monsieur?"
"The one about ’Crack-brain-cripple-arm.’"
He gazed at me so stupidly that I hesitated.
"I thought I heard you humming a song," said I.
"Maybe it was the dynamo, Monsieur."
"Maybe," I said gravely.
Smith and I walked out and across toward the cow-stables.
There was nothing to see there except chickens; the little brown Swiss
cattle being in pasture on the Bec de l’Empereur.
"If time hangs heavy with you, Smith," I ventured, "why not drive the
cows home and milk them in the evenings?"
He told me, profanely, that he had plenty to do to amuse himself.
"What, for example, did he tell you?"
"Write letters," he said,—"for example."
"To friends in dear old Norway, I suppose," said I flippantly.
"To whomever I darn well please," he rejoined drily.
That, of course, precluded further playful inquiry. Baffled, I walked on
beside him.  But I sullenly decided to stick to him until Clelia had
done the chamber-work and had safely retired to regions below stairs.
Several times he remarked he’d forgotten something and ought to go to
his rooms to look for the missing objects.  I pretended not to hear him
and he hadn’t the effrontery to attempt it.
The words of Raoul’s song kept running in my mind.
    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    You have done a heap of harm—"
And I found myself humming the catchy air as I strolled over my domain
with my unwilling companion.
"I like that song," I remarked.
"Of course you would," he said.
"Why?"
"Because you’re so bally neutral," he replied ironically.
"I am neutral.  All Chileans are.  I’m neutral because my country is."
"You’re neutral as hell," he retorted with a shrug—"you camouflaged
Yankee."
"If I weren’t neutral," said I, "I’d not be afraid of admitting it to a
New York Viking."
That put him out on first.  I enjoyed his silence for a while, then I
said: "Come on, old top, sing us some more Norse sagas about ’My girl’s
a corker.’"
"Can it!" retorted that typical product of Christiania.
So with quip and retort and persiflage veiled and more or less merry, we
strolled about in the beautiful early summer weather.
"Why the devil don’t you find Thusis and take another lesson in
angling?" he suggested.
"Because, dear friend, Thusis hitched up our horse and went to Zurich
this morning."
"What?  When?"
"Ere the earliest dicky-bird had caroled—ere Aurora had wiped night’s
messy cobwebs from the skies with rosy fingers."
"What did she go for?—that is, what did she say she was going for?"
"To purchase various household necessaries.  Why?"
"She’s a funny girl," he remarked evasively.
"Yes?"
"Rather."
"In what humorous particular do you hand it so generously to Thusis?" I
inquired.
"Oh, you know well enough she’s odd.  You can’t explain her.  She’s no
peasant, and you know it. She’s not Swiss, either.  I don’t know what
she is.  I don’t know quite what she’s doing here.  Sometimes she
reminds me of a runaway school girl: sometimes of the humorless,
pep-less prude who usually figures as heroine in a best seller.  And
sometimes she acts like a vixen! ... I didn’t tell you," he added, "but
I was amiable enough to try to kiss her that first evening.  I don’t
know where you were—but you can take it from me, O’Ryan, I thought I’d
caught hold of the original vestal virgin and that my hour had come for
the lions!"
"You beast," said I, not recollecting my own behavior in the cellar.
"What did she say?"
"She didn’t say anything.  She merely looked it. I’ve been horribly
afraid she’d tell her sister," he added naïvely.
"Smith," I said, laying an earnest hand on his arm, "you mustn’t frivol
with my household.  I won’t stand for it.  I admit that my household is
an unusual one.  Frankly, I have no more idea than you have that Thusis
and Clelia are real servants, or why they choose to take service here
with me. Probably they’re political agents.  I don’t care.  But you and
I mustn’t interfere with them, first, because it disorganizes my ménage;
second, because I believe they’re really nice girls."
"I think so, too," he said.
"Well, then, if they are, we don’t want to forget it.  And also we must
remember that probably they are political agents of some country now
engaged in this war, and it won’t do for us to become involved."
"How involved?"
"Well, suppose I took Thusis more or less seriously?"
"Do you?"
"I didn’t say I did.  I said suppose I do?  Who is she?  With all her
dainty personality and undoubted marks of birth and breeding—with the
irrefutable evidence of manner and speech and presence—with all these
ear-marks by which both she and Clelia seem plainly labeled—who is
Thusis?"
"I don’t know," he said soberly.
"Nor I.  And yet it is apparent that she has taken no pains to play the
part of a peasant or of a servant for our benefit.  Evidently she
doesn’t care—for I venture to believe she’s a good actress in addition
to the rest of her ungodly cleverness.
"But she seems to think it immaterial as to whether or not you and I
wonder who she may be. Mentally, Thusis snaps her fingers at us, Smith.
So does Clelia."
"Clelia is gentler—more girlish and immature," he said, "but she makes
no bones about having been in better circumstances.  She’s sweet but
she’s no weakling.  My curiosity amuses her and she pokes a lot of fun
at me."
"Doesn’t she tell you anything?  Doesn’t she give you any hint?"
"No, she doesn’t.  She’s friendly—willing to stop dusting and exchange a
little innocent banter with me....  Do you know, O’Ryan, I never before
saw such a pretty girl.  She’s only eighteen.  Did you know it?"
"No, I didn’t."
"And Thusis is twenty."
I thought deeply for a while, then:
"We’d better keep away from them except when business requires an
interview," I concluded.
"Why," he pointed out in annoyance, "that leaves me out entirely."
"Of course.  I shall not think of Thusis at all except on terms of
business.  That’s the safe idea, Smith, business,—strictly business.  It
neutralizes everything; it’s a wet blanket on folly; it paralyzes
friskiness; it slays sentiment in its tracks.  Become a business man.
Engage in some useful occupation. Suppose, for example, I pay you a
franc a week to feed my chickens."
"I’ve plenty to do, I tell you."
"Then do it, old top, and steer shy of that little blue-eyed parlor maid
of mine."
He made no answer.  We prowled about until nearly lunch-time.  But the
odd thing was that I had lost my appetite.  It may have happened because
I’d begun to worry a little about Thusis.
What the deuce had that girl been doing in Zurich all this while?  She
was too attractive to go about that seething city alone with market-cart
and horse. Some fresh young officer—
"Smith?"
He looked up, mildly surprised at my vehemence.
"Where the devil do you suppose Thusis is?" I asked.
"In Zurich, isn’t she?"
"Yes, but she’s been gone a long time and she ought to be back."
"Probably," he said, "she’s gallivanting with some handsome young fellow
along the Lake promenade. Possibly she’s lunching at the Baur-au-Lac
with some fascinating lieutenant.  Or maybe they’ve strolled over to the
Café de la Terrasse or to Rupps; or," he went on as though interested in
his irritating speculations, "it may be that Thusis has gone out in a
motor launch with some sprightly cavalier; or she may be at the
Tonhalle, or at Belvoir Park."
"No doubt," said I, exasperated.  "You needn’t speculate further."
"Business over, why shouldn’t Thusis kick up her pretty heels a bit?" he
inquired.
"Because Thusis isn’t that sort."
"How do you know that she isn’t that sort?"
I didn’t, and his question made me the madder.
"Luncheon ought to be ready," he reminded me presently.  I could
actually hear the grin in his voice.
"All right," said I.  "I’m hungry."  Which was a lie.  Then, as we
turned toward the house, Thusis drove into the yard.
Blue ribbons fluttered from her whip, from the fat horse’s head-stall,
from his braided tail.  There were bows of blue ribbon on her peasant’s
apron, too, which danced saucily in the wind.  I went over to aid her
descend from the cart, but she laughed and jumped out with a flash of
white stockings and blue garters.
"I’ve been wondering," said I, "why you were so long."
"Were you worried?"
The demurely malicious glance she flung at me became a laugh.  She
turned to Smith:
"Did he think somebody might kidnap his young and silly housekeeper?"
she inquired.  "Pas de chance!  I am horridly wise!"—she touched her
forehead with the tip of one finger—"and a thousand years old!"—she laid
one hand lightly over her heart.  And turned to me.  "I am a thousand
years of age," she repeated, smiling.  "Such as I are not kidnapped,
Monsieur O’Ryan.  Au contraire.  I myself am far more likely to
kidnap——"
She looked Smith gaily in the eye "—some agreeable young man—some day."
And very slowly her gray eyes included me.
Then she tossed the reins to Raoul who had come up beside the cart:
"A protean moment," she said to me, "and I shall reappear as a very
presentable waitress to wait upon you at luncheon."
And off went this amazing housekeeper of mine dancing lightly away
across the grass with the buckles on her little peasant slippers
twinkling and every blue ribbon a-flutter.
I turned and looked at Raoul.  He returned my gaze with an odd smile.
"Of what," said I, "are you thinking?"
"I was thinking," he replied seriously, "that the world is a very droll
place,—agreeable for the gay, but hell for those born without a sense of
humor."
                                  *VI*
                           *MASTER AND MAID*
I had become tired of following Smith about and of trying to keep an eye
on Clelia.  The little minx was so demure that it seemed difficult to
believe she deliberately offered Smith opportunities for philandering.
Otherwise my household caused me no anxiety; everything went smoothly.
Thusis waited on table and ran the place, Josephine Vannis cooked to
perfection, Raoul had started a garden and the bottling works; and no
tourists had bothered us by interrupting the régime and demanding food
and shelter.
Outwardly ours was a serene and emotionless life, undisturbed by that
bloody frenzy which agitated the greater surface of the globe.
Here in the sunny silence of our little valley ringed by snow peaks, the
soft thunder of some far avalanche or the distant tinkle of cow-bells
were the loudest interruptions that startled us from the peaceful
inertia consequent upon good food and idle hours.
Outwardly as I say, calm brooded all about us. True the Zurich and Berne
newspapers stirred me up, and the weekly packages of New York papers
which Smith and I received caused a tense silence in our rooms whither
we always retired to read them.
Smith once remarked that it was odd I never received any Chilean papers.
To which I replied that it seemed queer no Norwegian newspapers came to
him.
We let it rest there.  As for my household I never saw Josephine Vannis
at all except by accident in the early evening when I sometimes noticed
her in the distance strolling with Raoul.
On Clelia, I kept an unquiet eye as I have said. Thusis I saw only on
strictly business interviews. And Smith thought it strange that there
was so much business to be discussed between us.  But every day I felt
it my duty to go over my household accounts with Thusis, checking up
every item. In these daily conferences there were, of course, all sorts
of matters to consider, such as the farm and dairy reports from Raoul,
the bottling reports, daily sales of eggs, butter, and bottled
spring-water—a cart arriving from Zurich every morning to take away
these surplus items to the Grand Hotel, Baur-au-Lac, with which Thusis
had made a thrifty contract.
This was a very delightful part of the day to me,—the hour devoted to
business with Thusis, while Smith fumed in his room.  Possibly Clelia
fumed with him—I was afraid of that—and it was the only rift in the
lute.
Every morning I tried to prolong that business interview with
Thusis,—she looked so distractingly pretty in her peasant garb.  But
though her gray eyes were ever on duty and her winning smile flashed now
and then across the frontier of laughter, always and almost with malice,
she held me to the matter of business under discussion, discouraging all
diversions I made toward other topics, refusing to accompany me on gay
excursions into personalities, resisting any approach toward that little
spot of unconventional ground upon which we had once stood face to face.
For since that time when, for hours afterward, my hand remained
conscious of her soft, cool hand’s light contact—since that curious
compact between us which had settled her status, and my own, here under
this common roof above us, she had permitted no lighter conversation to
interrupt our business conferences, no other subject to intrude.  Only
now and then I caught a glimpse of tiny devils dancing in her gray eyes;
only at long intervals was the promise of the upcurled corners of her
mouth made good by the swift, sweet laughter always hidden there.
There was no use attempting any less impersonal footing any more; Thusis
simply evaded it, remaining either purposely dull and irresponsive or,
gathering up her accounts, she would rise, curtsey, and back out with a
gravity of features and demeanor that her mocking eyes denied.
Once, as I have said, I discovered a fishing rod in the attic, dug some
worms, and started out upon conservation bent.  And encountering Thusis
digging dandelions for salad behind the garden, explained to her my
attire and implements.  As it was strictly a matter of business she
consented to go with me as far as the brook.  There, by the bridge in
the first pool, she caught the first trout.  And, having showed me how,
retreated, resolutely repelling all suggestions that she take a morning
off, and defying me with a gaiety that made her eyes brilliant with
delighted malice.
"It was my duty to show you how Swiss trout are caught," she called back
to me, always retreating down the leafy path—"but when you propose a
pleasure party to your housekeeper—oh, Don Michael, you betray low
tastes and I am amazed at you and I beg you most earnestly to remember
the Admiral."
Whereupon I was stung into action and foolish enough to suppose I could
overtake her.  Where she vanished I don’t know.  There was not a sound
in the wood.  I was ass enough to call—even to appeal in a voice so
sentimental that I blush to remember it now.
And at last, discomfited and sulky, I went back to my fishing.  But hers
remained the only trout in my basket.  Smith and I ate it, baked with
parsley, for luncheon, between intermittent inquiries from Smith
regarding the fewness of the catch.
And now, it appeared, somebody had already told him that Thusis and I
had gone fishing together that day.  Who the devil had revealed that
fact?  Clelia, no doubt,—having been informed by Thusis.  And no doubt
Thusis had held me up to ridicule.
So now, at the hour when our daily business conference approached,
instead of seating myself as usual at the table in my sitting-room, I
took my fishing-rod, creel, a musty and water-warped leather fly-book,
and went into Smith’s room.
"Suppose we go fishing," I suggested, knowing he’d refuse on the chance
of a tête-à-tête with Clelia the minute I was out of sight.
He began to explain that he had letters to write, and I laughed in
derision and sent my regards to all the folks in dear old Norway.
"Go to the deuce," said I.  "Flirt with my chamber-maid if you want to,
but Thusis will take your head off—"
"Isn’t she going with you?"
"—When she returns," I continued, vexed and red at his impudent
conclusion.  It was perfectly true that I meant to take Thusis fishing,
but it was not Smith’s business to guess my intentions.
"You annoy me," I added, passing him with a scowl.  At which he merely
grinned.
In the hallway I encountered Clelia in cap and apron, very diligent with
her duster.
"Clelia," said I pleasantly, "has Raoul brought the mail?"
"Yes, Monsieur."
"Where is it?"
"There was only a bill from the Grand Hotel for cartage."
"What!" said I in pretense of dismay, "no letter yet from Mr. Smith’s
wife?  And seven of his children down with whooping-cough!"
"W-wife!" stammered Clelia, her blue eyes becoming enormous.  "S-seven
children!"
"Seven in Christiania," I explained sadly, "the other eleven at school
near Bergen.  Poor fellow. His suspense must be dreadful."
I’m no actor; I saw immediately in Clelia’s face that I had overplayed
my part as well as the total of Smith’s progeny, for the color came
swiftly back and she shot at me a glance anything but demure.
"The other eleven," I explained, "were by his first three wives."
Clelia, dusting furiously, looked around at me over her shoulder.
"At least," she said, "he’s done his duty by his country."
