at the Hotel Astor.
"Lehr, we were informed, was to go personally and get those papers....
Do you really wish to help us?"
"Certainly."
"Very well. I expect we shall have what you call a mix-up. You will
please, therefore, walk into Grogan's--not by the family entrance, but
by the swinging doors on Lexington Avenue. Kindly refresh yourself
there with some Munich beer; also eat a sandwich at my expense, if you
care to. Then you will give yourself the pains to inquire the way to
the wash-room. And there you will possess your soul in amiable
patience until you shall hear me speak your name in a very quiet,
polite tone."
Barres, recognising the familiar mock seriousness of student days in
Paris, began to smile. Renoux frowned and continued his instructions:
"When you hear me politely pronounce your name, mon vieux, then you
shall precipitate yourself valiantly to the aid of Monsieur Souchez
and myself--and perhaps Monsieur Alost--and help us to hold, gag and
search the somewhat violent German animal whom we corner inside the
family entrance of Herr Grogan!"
Barres had difficulty in restraining his laughter. Renoux was very
serious, with the delightful mock gravity of a witty and perfectly
fearless Frenchman.
"Lehr?" inquired Barres, still laughing.
"That is the animal under discussion. There will be a taxicab awaiting
us----" He turned to Souchez: "Dis, donc, Emile, faut employer ton
coup du Pêre François pour nous assurer de cet animal là."
"B'en sure," nodded Souchez, fishing furtively in the side pocket of
his coat and displaying the corner of a red silk handkerchief. He
stuffed it into his pocket again; Renoux smiled carelessly at Barres.
"Mon vieux," he said, "I hope it will be like a good fight in the
Quarter--what with all those Irish in there. You desire to get your
head broken?"
"You bet I do, Renoux!"
"Bien! So now, if you are quite ready?" he suggested. "Merci,
monsieur, et à bientôt!" He bowed profoundly.
Barres, still laughing, walked to Lexington Avenue, crossed northward,
and entered the swinging doors of Grogan's, perfectly enchanted to
have his finger in the pie at last, and aching for an old-fashioned
Latin Quarter row, the pleasures of which he had not known for several
too respectable years.
XX
GROGAN'S
The material attraction of Grogan's was principally German beer; the
æsthetic appeal of the place was also characteristically Teutonic and
consisted of peculiarly offensive decorations, including much red
cherry, much imitation stained glass, many sprawling brass fixtures,
and many electric lights. Only former inmates of the Fatherland could
have conceived and executed the embellishments of Grogan's.
There was a palatial bar, behind which fat, white-jacketed Teutons
served slopping steins of beer upon a perforated brass surface. There
was a centre table, piled with those barbarous messes known to the
undiscriminating Hun as "delicatessen"--raw fish, sour fish, smoked
fish, flabby portions of defunct pig in various guises--all naturally
nauseating to the white man's olfactories and palate, and all equally
relished by the beer-swilling boche.
A bartender with Pekinese and apoplectic eyes and the scorbutic facial
symptoms of a Strassburg liver, took the order from Barres and set
before him a frosty glass of Pilsner, incidentally drenching the bar
at the same time with swipes, which he thriftily scraped through the
perforated brass strainer into a slop-bucket underneath.
Being a stranger there, Barres was furtively scrutinised at first, but
there seemed to be nothing particularly suspicious about a young man
who stopped in for a glass of Pilsner on a July night, and nobody
paid him any further attention.
Besides, two United States Secret Service men had just gone out,
followed, as usual, by one Johnny Klein; and the Germans at the tables
at the bar, and behind the bar were still sneeringly commenting on the
episode--now a familiar one and of nightly occurrence.
So only very casual attention was paid to Barres and his Pilsner and
his rye-bread and sardine sandwich, which he took over to a vacant
table to desiccate and discuss at his leisure.
People came and went; conversation in Hunnish gutturals became
general; soiled evening newspapers were read, raw fish seized in fat
red fingers and suckingly masticated; also, skat and pinochle were
resumed with unwiped hands, and there was loud slapping of cards on
polished table tops, and many porcine noises.
Barres finished his Pilsner, side-stepped the sandwich, rose, asked a
bartender for the wash-room, and leisurely followed the direction
given.
There was nobody in there. He had, for company, a mouse, a soiled
towel on a roller, and the remains of some unattractive soap. He
lighted a cigarette, surveyed himself in the looking glass, cast a
friendly glance at the mouse, and stood waiting, flexing his biceps
muscles with a smile of anticipated pleasure in renewing the use of
them after such a very long period wasted in the peaceful pursuit of
art.
For he was still a boy at heart. All creative minds retain something
of those care-free, irresponsible years as long as the creative talent
lasts. As it fails, worldly caution creeps in like a thief in the
night, to steal the spontaneous pleasures of the past and leave in
their places only the old galoshes of prudence and the finger-prints
of dull routine.
Barres stood by the open door of the wash-room, listening. The
corridor which passed it led on into another corridor running at right
angles. This was the Family Entrance.
Now, as he waited there, he heard the street door open, and instantly
the deadened shock of a rush and struggle.
As he started toward the Family Entrance, straining his ears for the
expected summons, a man in flight turned the corner into his corridor
so abruptly that he had him by the throat even before he recognised in
him the man with the thick eye-glasses who had hit him between the
eyes with a pistol--the "Watcher" of Dragon Court!
With a swift sigh of gratitude to Chance, Barres folded the fleeing
Watcher to his bosom and began the business he had to transact with
him--an account too long overdue.
The Watcher fought like a wildcat, but in silence--fought madly, using
both fists, feet, baring his teeth, too, with frantic attempts to use
them. But Barres gave him no opportunity to kick, bite, or to pull out
any weapon; he battered the Watcher right and left, swinging on him
like lightning, and his blows drummed on him like the tattoo of fists
on a punching bag until one stinging crack sent the Watcher's head
snapping back with a jerk, and a terrific jolt knocked him as clean
and as flat as a dead carp.
There were papers in his coat, also a knuckle-duster, a big
clasp-knife, and an automatic pistol. And Barres took them all,
stuffed them into his own pockets, and, dragging his still dormant but
twitching victim by the collar, as a cat proudly lugs a heavy rat, he
started for the Family Entrance, where Donnybrook had now broken
loose.
But the silence of the terrific struggle in that narrow entry, the
absence of all yelling, was significant. No Irish whoops, no Teutonic
din of combat shattered the stillness of that dim corridor--only the
deadened sounds of blows and shuffling of frantic feet. It was very
evident that nobody involved desired to be interrupted by the police,
or call attention to the location of the battle field.
Renoux, Souchez, and a third companion were in intimate and desperate
conflict with half a dozen other men--dim, furious figures fighting
there under the flickering gas jet from which the dirty globe had been
knocked into fragments.
Into this dusty maelstrom of waving arms and legs went Barres--first
dropping his now inert prey--and began to hit out enthusiastically
right and left, at the nearest hostile countenance visible.
His was a flank attack and totally unexpected by the attackees; and
the diversion gave Renoux time to seize a muscular, struggling
opponent, hold him squirming while Souchez passed his handkerchief
over his throat and the third man turned his pockets inside out.
Then Renoux called breathlessly to Barres:
"All right, mon vieux! Face to the rear front! March!"
For a moment they stiffened to face a battering rush from the stairs.
Suddenly a pistol spoke, and an Irish voice burst out:
"Whist, ye domm fool! G'wan wid yer fishtin' an' can th' goon-play!"
There came a splintering crash as the rickety banisters gave way and
several Teutonic and Hibernian warriors fell in a furious heap,
blocking the entry with an unpremeditated obstacle.
Instantly Souchez, Barres and the other man backed out into the
street, followed nimbly by Renoux and his plunder.
Already a typical Third Avenue crowd was gathering, though the ominous
glimmer of a policeman's buttons had not yet caught the lamplight from
the street corner.
Then the door of Grogan's burst open and an embattled Irishman
appeared. But at first glance the hopelessness of the situation
presented itself to him; a taxi loaded with French and American
franc-tireurs was already honking triumphantly away westward; an
excited and rapidly increasing throng pressed around the Family
Entrance; also, the distant glitter of a policeman's shield and
buttons now extinguished all hope of pursuit.
Soane glared at the crowd out of enraged and blood-shot eyes:
"G'wan home, ye bunch of bums!" he said thickly, and slammed the door
to the Family Entrance of Grogan's notorious café.
At 42d Street and Madison Avenue the taxi stopped and Souchez and
Alost got out and went rapidly across the street toward the Grand
Central depot. Then the taxi proceeded west, north again, then once
more west.
Renoux, busy with a bleeding nose, remarked carelessly that Souchez
and Alost were taking a train and were in a hurry, and that he himself
was going back to the Astor.
"You do not mind coming with me, Barres?" he added. "In my rooms we
can have a bite and a glass together, and then we can brush up. That
was a nice little fight, was it not, mon ami?"
"Fine," said Barres with satisfaction.
"Quite like the old and happy days," mused Renoux, surveying wilted
collar and rumpled tie of his comrade. "You came off well; you have
merely a bruised cheek." His eyes began to sparkle and he laughed: "Do
you remember that May evening when your very quarrelsome atelier
barricaded the Café de la Source and forbade us to enter--and my
atelier marched down the Boul' Mich' with its Kazoo band playing our
atelier march, determined to take your café by assault? Oh, my! What a
delightful fight that was!"
"Your crazy comrades stuffed me into the fountain among the goldfish.
I thought I'd drown," said Barres, laughing.
"I know, but your atelier gained a great victory that night, and you
came over to Müller's with your Kazoo band playing the Fireman's
March, and you carried away our palms and bay-trees in their green
tubs, and you threw them over the Pont-au-Change into the Seine!----"
They were laughing like a pair of schoolboys now, quite convulsed and
holding to each other.
"Do you remember," gasped Barres, "that girl who danced the Carmagnole
on the Quay?"
"Yvonne Tête-de-Linotte!"
"And the British giant from Julien's, who threw everybody out of the
Café Montparnasse and invited the Quarter in to a free banquet?"
"McNeil!"
"What ever became of that pretty girl, Doucette de Valmy?"
"Oh, it was she who cheered on your atelier to the assault on
Müllers!----"
Laughter stifled them.
"What crazy creatures we all were," said Renoux, staunching the last
crimson drops oozing from his nose. Then, more soberly: "We French
have a grimmer affair over there than the joyous rows of the Latin
Quarter. I'm sorry now that we didn't throw every waiter in Müller's
after the bay-trees. There would have been so many fewer spies to
betray France."
The taxi stopped at the 44th Street entrance to the Astor. They
descended, Renoux leading, walked through the corridor to Peacock
Alley, turned to the right through the bar, then to the left into the
lobby, and thence to the elevator.
In Renoux's rooms they turned on the electric light, locked the door,
closed the transom, then spread their plunder out on a table.
To Renoux's disgust his own loot consisted of sealed envelopes full of
clippings from German newspapers published in Chicago, Milwaukee, and
New York.
"That animal, Lehr," he said with a wry face, "has certainly played us
a filthy turn. These clippings amount to nothing----" His eyes fell on
the packet of papers which Barres was now opening, and he leaned over
his shoulder to look.
"Thank God!" he said, "here they are! Where on earth did you find
these papers, Barres? They're the documents we were after! They ought
to have been in Lehr's pockets!"
"He must have passed them to the fellow who bumped into me near the
wash-room," said Barres, enchanted at his luck. "What a fortunate
chance that you sent me around there!"
Renoux, delighted, stood under the electric light unfolding document
after document, and nodding his handsome, mischievous head with
satisfaction.
"What luck, Barres! What did you do to the fellow?"
"Thumped him to sleep and turned out his pockets. Are these really
what you want?"
"I should say so! This is precisely what we are looking for!"
"Do you mind if I read them, too?"
"No, I don't. Why should I? You're my loyal comrade and you understand
discretion.... What do you think of this!" displaying a
typewritten document marked "Copy," enclosing a sheaf of maps.
It contained plans of all the East River and Harlem bridges, a tracing
showing the course of the new aqueduct and the Ashokan Dam, drawings
of the Navy Yard, a map of Iona Island, and a plan of the Welland
Canal.
The document was brief:
  "Included in report by K17 to Diplomatic Agent controlling
  Section 7-4-11-B. Recommended that detail plan of DuPont works be
  made without delay.
  "SKEEL."
Followed several sheets in cipher, evidently some intricate variation
of those which are always ultimately solved by experts.
But the documents that were now unfolded by Captain Renoux proved
readable and intensely interesting.
These were the papers which Renoux read and which Barres read over his
shoulder:
  "(Copy)
  Berlin Military Telegraph Office Telegram
  Berlin. Political Division of the General Staff
  Nr. Pol. 6431.
  (SECRET)
  8, Moltkestrasse,
    Berlin, NW, 40.
      March 20, 1916.
  "FEREZ BEY, N. Y.
  "Referring to your correspondence and conversations with Colonel
  Skeel, I most urgently request that the necessary funds be raised
  through the New York banker, Adolf Gerhardt; also that Bernstorff
  be immediately informed through Boy-Ed, so that plans of Head
  General Staff of Army on campaign may not be delayed.
  "Begin instantly enlist and train men, secure and arm power-boat
  assemble equipment and explosives, Welland Canal Exp'd'n. War
  Office No. 159-16, Secret U. K.:--T, 3, P."
       
  "Foreign Office, Berlin,
  "Dec. 28, 1914.
  "DEAR SIR ROGER:--I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your
  letter of the 23d inst., in which you submitted to his Imperial
  Majesty's Government a proposal for the formation of an Irish
  brigade which would be pledged to fight only for the cause of
  Irish nationalism, and which is to be composed of any Irish
  prisoners of war willing to join such a regiment.
  "In reply I have the honour to inform you that his Imperial
  Majesty's Government agrees to your proposal and also to the
  conditions under which it might be possible to train an Irish
  brigade. These conditions are set out in the declaration enclosed
  in your letter of the 13th inst., and are given at foot. I have
  the honour to be, dear Roger, your obedient servant,
  "(Signed) ZIMMERMAN,
  "Under Secretary of State for the Foreign Office.
       
  "TO HIS HONOUR, SIR ROGER CASEMENT,
    "Eden Hotel, Kurfürstendamm, Berlin."
  "(SECRET)
  "COLONEL MURTAGH SKEEL,
    "Flying Division, Irish Expeditionary Corps,
      "New York.
  "For your information I enclose Zimmerman's letter to Sir Roger,
  and also the text of Articles 6 and 7, being part of our first
  agreement with Sir Roger Casement.
  "You will note particularly the Article numbered 7.
  "This paragraph, unfortunately, still postpones your suggested
  attempt to seize on the high seas a British or neutral steamer
  loaded with arms and munitions, and make a landing from her on the
  Irish Coast.
  "But, in the meantime, is it not possible for you to seize one of
  the large ore steamers on the Great Lakes, transfer to her
  sufficient explosives, take her into the Welland Canal and blow up
  the locks?
  "No more valuable service could be performed by Irishmen; no
  deadlier blow delivered at England.
  "I am, my dear Skeel, your sincere friend and comrade,
  "(Signed) VON PAPEN.
  "P. S.--Herewith appended are Articles 6 and 7 included in the
  Casement convention:
  "(SECRET)
  "Text of Articles 6 and 7 of the convention concluded between Sir
  Roger Casement and the German Government:
  "6. The German Imperial Government undertakes 'under certain
  circumstances' to lend the Irish Brigade adequate military
  support, and to send it to Ireland abundantly supplied with arms
  and ammunition, in order that once there it may equip any Irish
  who would like to join it in making an attempt to re-establish
  Ireland's national liberty by force of arms.
  "The 'special circumstances' stipulated above are as follows:
  "In case of a German naval victory which would make it possible to
  reach the Irish coast, the German Imperial Government pledges
  itself to despatch the Irish Brigade and a German expeditionary
  corps commanded by German officers, in German troopships, to
  attempt a landing on the Irish coast.
  "7. It will be impossible to contemplate a landing in Ireland
  unless the German Navy can gain such a victory as to make it
  really likely that an attempt to reach Ireland by sea would
  succeed. Should the German Navy not win such a victory, then a use
  will be found for the Irish Brigade in Germany or elsewhere. But
  in no case will it be used except in such ways as Sir Roger
  Casement shall approve, as being completely in accordance with
  Article 2.
  "In this case the Irish Brigade might be sent to Egypt to lend
  assistance in expelling the English and re-establishing Egyptian
  independence.
  "Even if the Irish Brigade should not succeed in fighting for the
  liberation of Ireland from the English yoke, nevertheless a blow
  dealt at the British intruders in Egypt and intended to help the
  Egyptians to recover their freedom would be a blow struck for a
  cause closely related to that of Ireland."
Another paper read as follows:
  "Halbmondlager,
    "Aug. 20th, 1915.
  "(SECRET)"
  "To MURTAGH SKEEL, COLONEL,
    "Irish Exp. Force,
      "N. Y.
  "REPORT
  "On June 7, fifty Irishmen, with one German subaltern, were handed
  over to this camp, to be temporarily accommodated here. On June 16
  five more Irishmen arrived, one of whom, having a broken leg, was
  sent to the camp hospital. There are, therefore, fifty-four
  Irishmen now here, one Sergeant Major, one Deputy Sergeant Major,
  three Sergeants, three Corporals, three Lance Corporals, and
  forty-three privates.
  "They were accommodated as well as could be among the Indian
  battalion, an arrangement which gives rise to much trouble, which
  is inevitable, considering the tasks imposed upon Half Moon Camp.
  "The Irish form an Irish brigade, which was constituted after
  negotiations between the Foreign Office and Sir Roger Casement,
  the champion of Irish independence.
  "Enclosed is the Foreign Office communication of Dec. 28, 1914,
  confirming the conditions on which the Irish brigade was to be
  formed.
  "The members of the Irish brigade are no longer German prisoners
  of war, but receive an Irish uniform; and, according to orders,
  instructions are to be issued to treat the Irish as comrades in
  arms.
  "The Irish are under the command of a German officer, First Lieut.
  Boehm, the representative of the Grand General Staff (Political
  Division) which is in direct communication with the subaltern in
  charge of the Irish. This subaltern has been receiving money
  direct, which he expends in the interests of the Irish; 250 marks
  were given him through the Commandant's office, Zossen, and 250
  marks by First Lieut. Boehm.
  "Promotions, also, are made known by being directly communicated
  to the subaltern in question. As will appear from the enclosed
  copy, dated July 20, these promotions were as follows: (1)
  Sergeant Major, (2) Deputy Sergeant Major, and (3) Sergeants.
  "The uniforms arrived between the end of July and the beginning of
  August. Their coming was announced in a letter dated July 20 (copy
  enclosed), and their distribution was ordered. The box of uniforms
  was addressed to Zossen, whence it was brought here. The uniforms
  consist of a jacket, trousers, and cap in Irish style, and are of
  huntsman's green cloth. Altogether, uniforms arrived for fifty
  men, and they have since been given out. Three non-commissioned
  officers brought their uniforms with them from Limburg on July 16.
  Two photographs of the Irish are annexed.
  "A few Irish are in correspondence with Sir Roger Casement, who,
  in a letter from Munich, dated Aug. 16, says that he hears that
  the Irish are shortly to be transferred from here to another
  place. In a letter dated July 17 he complains of his want of
  success, only fifty men having sent in their names as wishing to
  join the brigade.
  "Six weeks ago Sir Roger Casement was here with First Lieutenant
  Boehm. Since then, however, neither of these gentlemen has
  personally visited the Irish.
  "Since the 18th of June the commandant's office has allowed every
  penniless Irishman two marks a week--a sum which is now being paid
  out to fifty-three men.
  "On Aug. 6 the subaltern in charge of the Irish brigade was given
  a German soldier to help him.
  "In this camp every possible endeavour is made to help to attain
  the important objects in view, but owing to the Irish being
  accommodated with coloured races within the precincts of a closed
  camp, it is inevitable that serious dissensions and acts of
  violence should take place. Moreover, a German subaltern is not
  suited for dealing independently with Irishmen.
  "(Sgd.) HAUPTMANN, d. R. a. D.,
  "(Retired Captain on the Reserve List)."
The last paper read as follows:
  "(COPY)
  "(Wireless via Mexico)
  "Berlin (no date).
  "FEREZ,
    "N. Y.
  "Necessary close Nihla Quellen case immediately. Evidently useless
  expect her take service with us. Hold you responsible. Advise you
  take secret measures to end menace to our interests in Paris.
  D'Eblis urges instant action. Bolo under suspicion. Ex-minister
  also suspected. Only drastic and final action on your part can end
  danger. You know what to do. Do it."
  The telegram was signed with a string of letters and numerals.
Renoux glanced curiously at Barres, who had turned very red and was
beginning to re-read the wireless.
When he finished, Renoux folded all the documents and placed them in
the breast pocket of his coat.
"Mon ami, Barres," he said pleasantly, "you and I have much yet to say
to each other."
"In the meanwhile, let us wash the stains of combat from our persons.
What is the number of your collar?"
"Fifteen and a half."
"I can fit you out. The bathroom is this way, old top!"
XXI
THE WHITE BLACKBIRD
Refreshed by icy baths and clean linen, and now further fortified
against the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune by a supper of
cold fowl and Moselle, Captain Renoux and Garret Barres sat in the
apartment of the former gentleman, gaily exchanging Latin Quarter
reminiscences through the floating haze of their cigars.
But the conversation soon switched back toward the far more serious
business which alone accounted for their being there together after
many years. For, as the French officer had remarked, a good deal
remained to be said between them. And Barres knew what he meant, and
was deeply concerned at the prospect.
But Renoux approached the matter with careless good humour and by a
leisurely, circuitous route, which polite pussy-footing was obviously
to prepare Barres for impending trouble.
He began by referring to his mission in America, admitting very
frankly that he was a modest link in the system of military and
political intelligence maintained by all European countries in the
domains of their neighbours.
"I might as well say so," he remarked, "because it's known to the
representatives of enemy governments here as well as to your own
Government, that some of us are here; and anybody can imagine why.
"And, in the course of my--studies," he said deliberately, while his
clear eyes twinkled, "it has come to my knowledge, and to the
knowledge of the French Ambassador, that there is, in New York, a
young woman who already has proven herself a dangerous enemy to my
country."
"That is interesting, if true," said Barres, reddening to the temples.
"But it is even more interesting if it is not true.... And it isn't!"
"You think not?"
"I don't think anything about it, Renoux; I know."
"I am afraid you have been misled, Barres. And it is natural enough."
"Why?"
"Because," said Renoux serenely, "she is very beautiful, very clever,
very young, very appealing.... Tell me, my friend, where did you meet
her?"
Barres looked him in the eyes:
"Where did you learn that I had ever met her?"
"Through the ordinary channels which, if you will pardon me, I am not
at liberty to discuss."
"All right. It is sufficient that you know I have met her. Now, where
did I meet her?"
"I don't know," said Renoux candidly.
"How long have I known her then?"
"Possibly a few weeks. Our information is that your acquaintance with
her is not of long duration."
"Wrong, my friend: I met her in France several years ago; I know her
intimately."
"Yes, the intimacy has been reported," said Renoux, blandly. "But it
doesn't take long, sometimes."
Barres reddened again and shook his head:
"You and your agents are all wrong, Renoux. So is your Government. Do
you know what it's doing--what you and your agents are doing? You're
playing a German game for Berlin!"
This time Renoux flushed and there was a slight quiver to his lips and
nostrils; but he said very pleasantly:
"That would be rather mortifying, mon ami, if it were true."
"It is true. Berlin, the traitor in Paris, the conspirator in America,
the German, Austrian, and Turkish diplomatic agents here ask nothing
better than that you manage, somehow, to eliminate the person in
question."
"Why?" demanded Renoux.
"Because more than one of your public men in Paris will face charges
of conspiracy and treason if the person in question ever has a fair
hearing and a chance to prove her innocence of the terrible
accusations that have been made against her."
"Naturally," said Renoux, "those accused bring counter charges. It is
always the history of such cases, mon ami."
"Your mind is already made up, then?"
"My mind is a real mind, Barres. Reason is what it seeks--the logical
evidence that leads to truth. If there is anything I don't know, then
I wish to know it, and will spare no pains, permit no prejudice to
warp my judgment."
"All right. Now, let's have the thing out between us, Renoux. We are
not fencing in the dark; we understand each other and are honest
enough to say so. Now, go on."
Renoux nodded and said very quietly and pleasantly:
"The reference in one of these papers to the celebrated Nihla Quellen
reminds me of the first time I ever saw her. I was quite bowled over,
Barres, as you may easily imagine. She sang one of those Asiatic
songs--and then the dance!--a miracle!--a delight--apparently entirely
unprepared, unpremeditated even--you know how she did it?--exquisite
perfection--something charmingly impulsive and spontaneous--a caprice
of the moment! Ah--there is a wonderful artiste, Nihla Quellen!"
Barres nodded, his level gaze fixed on the French officer.
"As for the document," continued Renoux, "it does not entirely explain
itself to me. You see, this Eurasian, Ferez Bey, was a very intimate
friend of Nihla Quellen."
"You are quite mistaken," interposed Barres. But the other merely
smiled with a slight gesture of deference to his friend's opinion, and
went on.
"This Ferez is one of those persistent, annoying flies which buzz
around chancelleries and stir up diplomats to pernicious activities.
You know there isn't much use in swatting, as you say, the fly. No.
Better find the manure heap which hatched him and burn that!"
He smiled and shrugged, relighted his cigar, and continued:
"So, mon ami, I am here in your charming and hospitable city to direct
the necessary sanitary measures, sub rosa, of course. You have been
more than kind. My Government and I have you to thank for this batch
of papers----" He tapped his breast pocket and made salutes which
Frenchmen alone know how to make.
"Renoux," said Barres bluntly, "you have learned somehow that Nihla
Quellen is under my protection. You conclude I am her lover."
The officer's face altered gravely, but he said nothing.
Barres leaned forward in his chair and laid a hand on his comrade's
shoulder:
"Renoux, do you trust me, personally?"
"Yes."
"Very well. Then I shall trust you. Because there is nothing you can
tell me about Nihla Quellen that I do not already know--nothing
concerning her dossier in your secret archives, nothing in regard to
the evidence against her and the testimony of the Count d'Eblis. And
that clears the ground between you and me."
If Renoux was surprised he scarcely showed it.
Barres said:
"As long as you know that she is under my protection, I want you to
come to my place and talk to her. I don't ask you to accept my
judgment in regard to her; I merely wish you to listen to what she has
to say, and then come to your own conclusions. Will you do this?"
For a few moments Renoux sat quite still, his clear, intelligent eyes
fixed on the smoking tip of his cigar. Without raising them he said
slowly:
"As we understand it, Nihla Quellen has been a spy from the very
beginning. Our information is clear, concise, logical. We know her
history. She was the mistress of Prince Cyril, then of Ferez, then of
d'Eblis--perhaps of the American banker, Gerhardt, also. She came
directly from the German Embassy at Constantinople to Paris, on
Gerhardt's yacht, the Mirage, and under his protection and the
protection of Comte Alexandre d'Eblis.
"Ferez was of the party. And that companionship of conspirators never
was dissolved as long as Nihla Quellen remained in Europe."
"That Nihla Quellen has ever been the mistress of any man is
singularly untrue," said Barres coolly. "Your Government has to do
with a chaste woman; and it doesn't even know that much!"
Renoux regarded him curiously:
"You have seen her dance?" he enquired gravely.
"Often. And, Renoux, you are too much a man of the world to be
surprised at the unexpected. There are white blackbirds."
"Yes, there are."
"Nihla Quellen is one."
"My friend, I desire to believe it if it would be agreeable to you."
"I know, Renoux; I believe in your good-will. Also, I believe in your
honesty and intelligence. And so I do not ask you to accept my word
for what I tell you. Only remember that I am absolutely certain
concerning my belief in Nihla Quellen.... I have no doubt that you
think I am in love with her.... I can't answer you. All Europe was in
love with her. Perhaps I am.... I don't know, Renoux. But this I do
know; she is clean and sweet and honest from the crown of her head to
the sole of her foot. In her heart there has never dwelt treachery.
Talk to her to-night. You're like the best of your compatriots, clear
minded, logical, intelligent, and full of that legitimate imagination
without which intellect is a machine. You know the world; you know
men; you don't know women and you know you don't. Therefore, you are
equipped to learn the truth--to divine it--from Nihla Quellen. Will
you come over to my place now?"
"Yes," said Renoux pleasantly.
       
The orchestra was playing as they passed through the hotel; supper
rooms, corridors, café and lobby were crowded with post-theatre
throngs in search of food and drink and dance music; and although few
theatres were open in July, Long Acre blazed under its myriad lights
and the sidewalks were packed with the audiences filtering out of the
various summer shows and into all-night cabarets.
They looked across at the distant war bulletins displayed on Times
Square, around which the usual gesticulating crowd had gathered, but
kept on across Long Acre, and west toward Sixth Avenue.
Midway in the block, Renoux touched his comrade silently on the arm,
and halted.
"A few minutes, mon ami, if you don't mind--time for you to smoke a
cigarette while waiting."
They had stopped before a brownstone house which had been converted
into a basement dwelling, and which was now recessed between two
modern shops constructed as far as the building line.
All the shades and curtains in the house were drawn and the place
appeared to be quite dark, but a ring at the bell brought a big,
powerfully built porter, who admitted them to a brightly lighted
reception room. Then the porter replaced the chains on the door of
bronze.
"Just a little while, if you will be amiable enough to have patience,"
said Renoux.
He went away toward the rear of the house and Barres seated himself.
And in a few moments the burly porter reappeared with a tray
containing a box of cigarettes and a tall glass of Moselle.
"Monsieur Renoux will not be long," he said, bringing a sheaf of
French illustrated periodicals to the little table at Barres' elbow;
and he retired with a bow and resumed his chair in the corridor by the
bronze door.
Through closed doors, somewhere from the rear of the silent house
came the distant click of a typewriter. At moments, too, looking over
the war pictures in the periodicals, Barres imagined that he heard a
confused murmur as of many voices.
Later it became evident that there were a number of people somewhere
in the house, because, now and then, the porter unlatched the door and
drew the chains to let out some swiftly walking man.
Once two men came out together. One carried a satchel; the other
halted in the hallway to slip a clip into an automatic pistol before
dropping it into the side pocket of his coat.
And after a while Renoux appeared, bland, debonaire, evidently much
pleased with whatever he had been doing.
Two other men appeared in the corridor behind him; he said something
to them in a low voice; Barres imagined he heard the words,
"Washington" and "Jusserand."
Then the two men went out, walking at a smart pace, and Renoux
sauntered into the tiny reception room.
"You don't know," he said, "what a very important service you have
rendered us by catching that fellow to-night and stripping him of his
papers."
Barres rose and they walked out together.
"This city," added Renoux, "is fairly verminous with disloyal Huns.
The streets are crawling with them; every German resort, saloon, beer
garden, keller, café, club, society--every German drug store,
delicatessen shop, music store, tobacconist, is lousy with the
treacherous swine.
"There are two great hotels where the boche gathers and plots; two
great banking firms are centres of German propaganda; three great
department stores, dozens of downtown commercial agencies; various
buildings and piers belonging to certain transatlantic steamship
lines, the offices of certain newspapers and periodicals.... Tell me,
Barres, did you know that the banker, Gerhardt, owns the building in
which you live?"
"Dragon Court!"
"You didn't know it, evidently. Yes, he owns it."
"Is he really involved in pro-German intrigue?" asked Barres.
"That is our information."
"I ask," continued Barres thoughtfully, "because his summer home is at
Northbrook, not far from my own home. And to me there is something
peculiarly contemptible about disloyalty in the wealthy who owe every
penny to the country they betray."
"His place is called Hohenlinden," remarked Renoux.
"Yes. Are you having it watched?"
Renoux smiled. Perhaps he was thinking about other places, also--the
German Embassy, for example, where, inside the Embassy itself, not
only France but also the United States Government was represented by a
secret agent among the personnel.
"We try to learn what goes on among the boches," he said carelessly.
"They try the same game. But, Barres, they are singularly stupid at
such things--not adroit, merely clumsy and brutal. The Hun cannot
camouflage his native ferocity. He reveals himself.
"And in that respect it is fortunate for civilisation that it is
dealing with barbarians. Their cunning is of the swinish sort. Their
stench ultimately discovers them. You are discovering it for
yourselves; you detected Dernberg; you already sniff Von Papen,
Boy-ed, Bernstorff. All over the world the nauseous effluvia from the
vast Teutonic hog-pen is being detected and recognised. And
civilisation is taking sanitary measures to abate the nuisance.... And
your country, too, will one day send out a sanitary brigade to help
clean up the world, just as you now supply our details with the
necessary chlorides and antiseptics."
Barres laughed:
"You are very picturesque," he said. "And I'll tell you one thing, if
we don't join the sanitary corps now operating, I shall go out with a
bottle of chloride myself."
They entered Dragon Court a few moments later. Nobody was at the desk,
it being late.
"To-morrow," said Barres, as they ascended the stairs, "my friends,
Miss Soane, Miss Dunois, and Mr. Westmore are to be our guests
at Foreland Farms. You didn't know that, did you?" he added
sarcastically.
"Oh, yes," replied Renoux, much amused. "Miss Dunois, as you call her,
sent her trunks away this evening."
Barres, surprised and annoyed, halted on the landing:
"Your people didn't interfere, I hope."
"No. There was nothing in them of interest to us," said Renoux
naïvely. "I sent a report when I sent on to Washington the papers
which you secured for us."
Barres paused before his studio door, key in hand. They could hear the
gramophone going inside. He said:
"I don't have to ask you to be fair, Renoux, because the man who is
unfair to others swindles himself, and you are too decent, too
intelligent to do that. I am going to present you to Thessalie Dunois,
which happens to be her real name, and I am going to tell her in your
presence who you are. Then I shall leave you alone with her."
He fitted his latchkey and opened the door.
Westmore was trying fancy dancing with Dulcie on one side, and
Thessalie on the other--the latter evidently directing operations.
"Garry!" exclaimed Thessalie.
"You're a fine one! Where have you been?" began Westmore. Then he
caught sight of Renoux and became silent.
Barres led his comrade forward and presented him:
"A fellow student of the Beaux Arts," he explained, "and we've had a
very jolly evening together. And, Thessa, there is something in
particular that I should like to have you explain to Monsieur Renoux,
if you don't mind...." He turned and looked at Dulcie: "If you will
pardon us a moment, Sweetness."
She nodded and smiled and took Westmore's arm again, and continued the
dance alone with him while Barres, drawing Thessalie's arm through
his, and passing his other arm through Renoux's, walked leisurely
through his studio, through the now open folding doors, past his
bedroom and Westmore's, and into the latter's studio beyond.
"Thessa, dear," he said very quietly, "I feel very certain that
the worst of your troubles are about to end----" He felt her
start slightly. "And," he continued, "I have brought my comrade,
Renoux, here to-night so that you and he can clear up a terrible
misunderstanding.
"And Monsieur Renoux, once a student of architecture at the Beaux
Arts, is now Captain Renoux of the Intelligence Department in the
French Army----"
Thessalie lost her colour and a tremor passed through the arm which
lay within his.
But he said calmly:
"It is the only way as well as the best way, Thessa. I know you are
absolutely innocent. I am confident that Captain Renoux is going to
believe it, too. If he does not, you are no worse off. Because it has
already become known to the French Government that you are here.
Renoux knew it."
They had halted; Barres led Thessalie to a seat. Renoux, straight,
deferential, correct, awaited her pleasure.
She looked up at him; his keen, intelligent eyes met hers.
"If you please, Captain Renoux, will you do me the honour to be
seated?" she said in a low voice.
Barres went to her, bent over her hand, touched it with his lips.
"Just tell him the truth, Thessa, dear," he said.
"Everything?" she smiled faintly, "including our first meeting?"
Barres flushed, then laughed:
"Yes, tell him about that, too. It was too charming for him not to
appreciate."
And with a half mischievous, half amused nod to Renoux he went back to
find the dancers, whom he could hear laughing far away in his own
studio.
       
It was nearly one o'clock when Dulcie, who had been sleeping with
Thessalie, whispered to Barres that she was ready to retire.
"Indeed, you had better," he said, releasing her as the dance music
ran down and ceased. "If you don't get some sleep you won't feel like
travelling to-morrow."
"Will you explain to Thessa?"
"Of course. Good-night, dear."
She gave him her hand in silence, turned and offered it to Westmore,
then went away toward her room.
Westmore, who had been fidgeting a lot since Thessalie had retired for
a tête-à-tête with a perfectly unknown and alarmingly good-looking
young man whom he never before had laid eyes on, finally turned short
in his restless pacing of the studio.
"What the deuce can be keeping Thessa?" he demanded. "And who the
devil is that black-eyed young sprig of France you brought home with
you?"
"Sit down and I'll tell you," said Barres crisply, instinctively
resenting his friend's uncalled for solicitude in Thessalie's behalf.
So Westmore seated himself and Barres told him all about the evening's
adventures. And he was still lingering unctuously over the details of
the battle at Grogan's, the recital of which, Westmore demanding, he
had begun again, when at the farther end of the studio Thessalie
appeared, coming toward them.
Renoux was beside her, very deferential and graceful in his
attendance, and with that niceness of attitude which confesses respect
in every movement.
Thessalie came forward; Barres advanced to meet her with the unspoken
question in his eyes, and she gave him both her hands with a tremulous
little smile of happiness.
"Is it all right?" he whispered.
"I think so."
Barres turned and grasped Renoux by one hand.
The latter said:
"There is not the slightest doubt in my mind, mon ami. You were
perfectly right. A frightful injustice has been done in this matter.
Of that I am absolutely convinced."
"You will do what you can to set things right?"
"Of course," said Renoux simply.
There was a moment's silence, then Renoux smiled:
"You know," he said lightly, "we French have a horror of any more
mistakes like the Dreyfus case. We are terribly sensitive. Be assured
that my Government will take up this affair instantly upon receiving
my report."
He turned to Barres:
"Would you, perhaps, offer me a day's hospitality at your home in the
country, if I should request it by telegram sometime this week or
next?"
"You bet," replied Barres cordially.
Then Renoux made his adieux, as only such a Frenchman can make them,
saying exactly the right thing to each, in exactly the right manner.
When he was gone, Barres took Thessalie's hands and pressed them:
"Pretty merle-blanc, your little friend Dulcie is already asleep. Tell
us to-morrow how you convinced him that you are what you are--the
dearest, sweetest girl in the world!"
She laughed demurely, then glanced apprehensively, sideways, at
Westmore.
And the mute but infuriated expression on that young man's countenance
seemed to cause her the loss of all self-possession, for she cast one
more look at him and fled with a hasty "good-night!"
XXII
FORELAND FARMS
Toward three o'clock on the following afternoon the sun opened up like
a searchlight through the veil of rain, dissolving it to a golden haze
which gradually grew thinner and thinner, revealing glimpses of
rolling country against a horizon of low mountains.
About the same time the covered station wagon turned in between the
white gates of Foreland Farms, proceeded at a smart trot up the drive,
and stopped under a dripping porte-cochère, where a smiling servant
stood waiting to lift out the luggage.
A trim looking man of forty odd, in soft shirt and fawn coloured
knickers, and wearing a monocle in his right eye and a flower in his
buttonhole, came out on the porch as Barres and his guests descended.
"Well, Garry," he said, "I'm glad you're home at last! But you're
rather late for the fishing." And to Westmore:
"How are you, Jim? Jolly to have you back! But I regret to inform you
that the fishing is very poor just now."
His son, who stood an inch or two taller than his debonaire parent,
passed one arm around his shoulders and patted them affectionately
while the easy presentations were concluded.
At the same moment two women, beautifully mounted and very wet,
galloped up to the porch and welcomed Garry's guests from their
saddles in the pleasant, informal, incurious manner characteristic of
Foreland Farm folk--a manner which seemed too amiably certain of
itself to feel responsibility for anybody or anything else.
Easy, unconcerned, slender and clean-built women these--Mrs. Reginald
Barres, Garry's mother, and her daughter, Lee. And in their smart,
rain-wet riding clothes they might easily have been sisters, with a
few years' difference between them, so agreeably had Time behaved
toward Mrs. Barres, so closely her fair-haired, fair-skinned daughter
resembled her.
They swung carelessly out of their saddles and set spurred foot to
turf, and, with Garret and his guests, sauntered into the big living
hall, where a maid waited with wine and biscuits and the housekeeper
lingered to conduct Thessalie and Dulcie to their rooms.
Dulcie Soane, in her pretty travelling gown, walked beside Mrs.
Reginald Barres into the first great house she had ever entered.
Composed, but shyly enchanted, an odd but delightful sensation
possessed her that she was where she belonged--that such environment,
such people should always have been familiar to her--were logical and
familiar to her now.
Mrs. Barres was saying:
"And if you like parties, there is always gaiety at Northbrook. But
you don't have to go anywhere or do anything you don't wish to."
Dulcie said, diffidently, that she liked everything, and Mrs. Barres
laughed.
"Then you'll be very popular," she said, tossing her riding crop onto
the table and stripping off her wet gloves.
Barres senior was already in serious confab with Westmore concerning
piscatorial conditions, the natural low water of midsummer, the
capricious conduct of the trout in the streams and in the upper and
lower lakes.
"They won't look at anything until sunset," he explained, "and then
they don't mean business. You'll see, Jim. I'm sorry; you should have
come in June."
Lee, Garret's boyishly slim sister, had already begun to exchange
opinions about horses with Thessalie, for both had been familiar with
the saddle since childhood, though the latter's Cossack horsemanship
and mastery of the haute école, incident to her recent and irregular
profession, might have astonished Lee Barres.
Mrs. Barres was saying to Dulcie:
"We don't try to entertain one another here, but everybody seems to
have a perfectly good time. The main thing is that we all feel quite
free at Foreland. You'll lose yourself indoors at first. The family
for a hundred years has been adding these absurd two-story wings, so
that the house wanders at random over the landscape, and you may have
to inquire your way about in the beginning."
She smiled again at Dulcie and took her hand in both of hers:
"I'm sure you will like the Farms," she said, linking her other arm
through her son's. "I'm rather wet, Garry," she added, "but I think
Lee and I had better dry out in the saddle." And to Dulcie again: "Tea
at five, if anybody wishes it. Would you like to see your room?"
Thessalie, conversing with Lee, turned smilingly to be included in the
suggestion; and the maid came forward to conduct her and Dulcie
through the intricacies of the big, casual, sprawling house, where
rooms and corridors and halls rambled unexpectedly and irrelevantly
in every direction, and one vista seemed to terminate in another.
When they had disappeared, the Barres family turned to inspect its son
and heir with habitual and humorous insouciance, commenting frankly
upon his personal appearance and concluding that his health still
remained all that could be desired by the most solicitous of parents
and sisters.
"There are rods already rigged up in the work-room," remarked his
father, "if you and your guests care to try a dry-fly this evening. As
for me, you'll find me somewhere around the upper lake, if you care to
look for me----"
He fished out of his pocket a bewildering tangle of fine mist-leaders,
and, leisurely disentangling them, strolled toward the porch, still
talking:
"There's only one fly they deign to notice, now--a dust-coloured midge
tied in reverse with no hackle, no tinsel, a May-fly tail, and barred
