the ancient Yezidee; the gods of the hun are the old demons under other
names; the desire and object of the hun is the same desire--to rule the
minds and bodies and souls of men and use them to their own purposes!"
She lifted her pistol a little, came a pace forward:
"Anarchist, Yezidee, Hassani, Boche, Bolshevik--all are the same--all
are secretly swarming in the hidden places for the same purpose!"
The girl's blue eyes were aflame, now, and the pistol was lifting slowly
in her hand to a deadly level.
"Sanang!" she cried in a terrible voice.
"Sanang!" she cried again in her terrifying young voice--"Toad! Tortoise
egg! Spittle of Erlik! May the Thirty Thousand Calamities overtake you!
Sheik-el-Djebel!--cowardly Khan whom I laughed at from the temple when
it rained yellow snakes on the marble steps when all the gongs in Yian
sounded in your frightened ears!"
She waited.
"What! You won't step out? Tokhta!" she exclaimed in a ringing tone,
and made a swift motion with her left hand. Apparently out of her empty
open palm, like a missile hurled, a thin, blinding beam of light struck
the curtains, making them suddenly transparent.
A man stood there.
He came out, moving very slowly as though partly stupefied. He wore
evening dress under his overcoat, and had a long knife in his right
hand.
Nobody spoke.
"So--I really was to die then, if I came here," said the girl in a
wondering way.
Sanang's stealthy gaze rested on her, stole toward Cleves. He moistened
his lips with his tongue. "You deliver me to this government agent?" he
asked hoarsely.
"I deliver nobody by treachery. You may go, Sanang."
He hesitated, a graceful, faultless, metropolitan figure in top-hat and
evening attire. Then, as he started to move, Cleves covered him with his
weapon.
"I can't let that man go free!" cried Cleves angrily.
"Very well!" she retorted in a passionate voice--"then take him if you
are able! Tokhta! Look out for yourself!"
Something swift as lightning struck the pistol from his grasp,--blinded
him, half stunned him, set him reeling in a drenching blaze of light
that blotted out all else.
He heard the door slam; he stumbled, caught at the back of a chair while
his senses and sight were clearing.
"By heavens!" he whispered with ashen lips, "you--you are a
sorceress--or something. What--what, are you doing to me?"
There was no answer. And when his vision cleared a little more he saw
her crouched on the floor, her head against the locked door, listening,
perhaps--or sobbing--he scarcely understood which until the quiver of
her shoulders made it plainer.
When at last Cleves went to her and bent over and touched her she looked
up at him out of wet eyes, and her grief-drawn mouth quivered.
"I--I don't know," she sobbed, "if he truly stole away my
soul--there--there in the temple dusk of Yian. But he--he stole my
heart--for all his wickedness--Sanang, Prince of the Yezidees--and I
have been fighting him for it all these years--all these long
years--fighting for what he stole in the temple dusk!... And now--now I
have it back--my heart--all broken to pieces--here on the floor behind
your--your bolted door."
CHAPTER V
THE ASSASSINS
On the wall hung a map of Mongolia, that indefinite region a million and
a half square miles in area, vast sections of which have never been
explored.
Turkestan and China border it on the south, and Tibet almost touches it,
not quite.
Even in the twelfth century, when the wild Mongols broke loose and
nearly overran the world, the Tibet infantry under Genghis, the
Tchortcha horsemen drafted out of Black China, and a great cloud of
Mongol cavalry under the Prince of the Vanguard commanding half a
hundred Hezars, never penetrated that grisly and unknown waste. The
"Eight Towers of the Assassins" guarded it--still guard it, possibly.
The vice-regent of Erlik, Prince of Darkness, dwelt within this unknown
land. And dwells there still, perhaps.
In front of this wall-map stood Tressa Norne.
Behind her, facing the map, four men were seated--three of them under
thirty.
These three were volunteers in the service of the United States
Government--men of independent means, of position, who had volunteered
for military duty at the outbreak of the great war. However, they had
been assigned by the Government to a very different sort of duty no less
exciting than service on the fighting line, but far less conspicuous,
for they had been drafted into the United States Department of Justice.
The names of these three were Victor Cleves, a professor of ornithology
at Harvard University before the war; Alexander Selden, junior partner
in the banking firm of Milwyn, Selden, and Co., and James Benton, a New
York architect.
The fourth man's name was John Recklow. He might have been over fifty,
or under. He was well-built, in a square, athletic way, clear-skinned
and ruddy, grey-eyed, quiet in voice and manner. His hair and moustache
had turned silvery. He had been employed by the Government for many
years. He seemed to be enormously interested in what Miss Norne was
saying.
Also he was the only man who interrupted her narrative to ask questions.
And his questions revealed a knowledge which was making the girl more
sensitive and uneasy every moment.
Finally, when she spoke of the Scarlet Desert, he asked if the Scarlet
Lake were there and if the Xin was still supposed to inhabit its
vermilion depths. And at that she turned and looked at him, her
forefinger still resting on the map.
"Where have you ever heard of the Scarlet Lake and the Xin?" she asked
as though frightened.
Recklow said quietly that as a boy he had served under Gordon and Sir
Robert.
"If, as a boy, you served under Chinese Gordon, you already know much of
what I have told you, Mr. Recklow. Is it not true?" she demanded
nervously.
"That makes no difference," he replied with a smile. "It is all very new
to these three young gentlemen. And as for myself, I am checking up what
you say and comparing it with what I heard many, many years ago when my
comrade Barres and I were in Yian."
"Did you really know Sir Robert Hart?"
"Yes."
"Then why do you not explain to these gentlemen?"
"Dear child," he interrupted gently, "what did Chinese Gordon or Sir
Robert Hart, or even my comrade Barres, or I myself know about occult
Asia in comparison to what you know?--a girl who has actually served the
mysteries of Erlik for four amazing years!"
She paled a trifle, came slowly across the room to where Recklow was
seated, laid a timid hand on his sleeve.
"Do you believe there are sorcerers in Asia?" she asked with that
child-like directness which her wonderful blue eyes corroborated.
Recklow remained silent.
"Because," she went on, "if, in your heart, you do not believe this to
be an accursed fact, then what I have to say will mean nothing to any of
you."
Recklow touched his short, silvery moustache, hesitating. Then:
"The worship of Erlik is devil worship," he said. "Also I am entirely
prepared to believe that there are, among the Yezidees, adepts who
employ scientific weapons against civilisation--who have probably
obtained a rather terrifying knowledge of psychic laws which they use
scientifically, and which to ordinary, God-fearing folk appear to be the
black magic of sorcerers."
Cleves said: "The employment by the huns of poison gases and long-range
cannon is a parallel case. Before the war we could not believe in the
possibility of a cannon that threw shells a distance of seventy miles."
The girl still addressed herself to Recklow: "Then you do not believe
there are real sorcerers in Asia, Mr. Recklow?"
"Not sorcerers with supernatural powers for evil. Only degenerate human
beings who, somehow, have managed to tap invisible psychic currents, and
have learned how to use terrific forces about which, so far, we know
practically nothing."
She spoke again in the same uneasy voice: "Then you do not believe that
either God or Satan is involved?"
"No," he replied smilingly, "and you must not so believe."
"Nor the--the destruction of human souls," she persisted; "you do not
believe it is being accomplished to-day?"
"Not in the slightest, dear young lady," he said cheerfully.
"Do you not believe that to have been instructed in such unlawful
knowledge is damning? Do you not believe that ability to employ unknown
forces is forbidden of God, and that to disobey His law means death to
the soul?"
"No!"
"That it is the price one pays to Satan for occult power over people's
minds?" she insisted.
"Hypnotic suggestion is not one of the cardinal sins," explained
Recklow, still smiling--"unless wickedly employed. The Yezidee
priesthood is a band of so-called sorcerers only because of their wicked
employment of whatever hypnotic and psychic knowledge they may have
obtained.
"There was nothing intrinsically wicked in the huns' discovery of
phosgene. But the use they made of it made devils out of them. My
ability to manufacture phosgene gas is no crime. But if I manufacture it
and use it to poison innocent human beings, then, in that sense, I am,
perhaps, a sort of modern sorcerer."
Tressa Norne turned paler:
"I had better tell you that I have used--forbidden knowledge--which
the Yezidees taught me in the temple of Erlik."
"Used it how?" demanded Cleves.
"To--to earn a living.... And once or twice to defend myself."
There was the slightest scepticism in Recklow's bland smile. "You did
quite right, Miss Norne."
She had become very white now. She stood beside Recklow, her back toward
the suspended map, and looked in a scared sort of way from one to the
other of the men seated before her, turning finally to Cleves, and
coming toward him.
"I--I once killed a man," she said with a catch in her breath.
Cleves reddened with astonishment. "Why did you do that?" he asked.
"He was already on his way to kill me in bed."
"You were perfectly right," remarked Recklow coolly.
"I don't know ... I was in bed.... And then, on the edge of sleep, I
felt his mind groping to get hold of mine--feeling about in the darkness
to get hold of my brain and seize it and paralyse it."
All colour had left her face. Cleves gripped the arm of his chair and
watched her intently.
"I--I had only a moment's mental freedom," she went on in a ghost of a
voice. "I was just able to rouse myself, fight off those murderous
brain-fingers--let loose a clear mental ray.... And then, O God! I saw
him in his room with his Kalmuck knife--saw him already on his way to
murder me--Gutchlug Khan, the Yezidee--looking about in his bedroom for
a shroud.... And when--when he reached for the bed to draw forth a fine,
white sheet for the shroud without which no Yezidee dares journey
deathward--then--then I became frightened.... And I killed him--I slew
him there in his hotel bedroom on the floor above mine!"
Selden moistened his lips: "That Oriental, Gutchlug, died from
heart-failure in a San Francisco hotel," he said. "I was there at the
time."
"He died by the fangs of a little yellow snake," whispered the girl.
"There was no snake in his room," retorted Cleves.
"And no wound on his body," added Selden. "I attended the autopsy."
She said, faintly: "There was no snake, and no wound, as you say.... Yet
Gutchlug died of both there in his bedroom.... And before he died he
heard his soul bidding him farewell; and he saw the death-adder coiled
in the sheet he clutched--saw the thing strike him again and again--saw
and felt the tiny wounds on his left hand; felt the fangs pricking deep,
deep into the veins; died of it there within the minute--died of the
swiftest poison known. And yet----"
She turned her dead-white face to Cleves--"And yet there was no snake
there!... And never had been.... And so I--I ask you, gentlemen, if
souls do not die when minds learn to fight death with death--and deal it
so swiftly, so silently, while one's body lies, unstirring on a bed--in
a locked room on the floor below----"
She swayed a little, put out one hand rather blindly.
Recklow rose and passed a muscular arm around her; Cleves, beside her,
held her left hand, crushing it, without intention, until she opened her
eyes with a cry of pain.
"Are you all right?" asked Recklow bluntly.
"Yes." She turned and looked at Cleves and he caressed her bruised hand
as though dazed.
"Tell me," she said to Cleves--"you who know--know more about my mind
than anybody living----" a painful colour surged into her face--but she
went on steadily, forcing herself to meet his gaze: "tell me, Mr.
Cleves--do you still believe that nothing can really destroy my soul?
And that it shall yet win through to safety?"
He said: "Your soul is in God's keeping, and always shall be.... And if
the Yezidees have made you believe otherwise, they lie."
Recklow added in a slow, perplexed way: "I have no personal knowledge of
psychic power. I am not psychic, not susceptible. But if you actually
possess such ability, Miss Norne, and if you have employed such
knowledge to defend your life, then you have done absolutely right."
"No guilt touches you," added Selden with an involuntary shiver, "if by
hypnosis or psychic ability you really did put an end to that would-be
murderer, Gutchlug."
Selden said: "If Gutchlug died by the fangs of a yellow death-adder
which existed only in his own mind, and if you actually had anything to
do with it you acted purely in self-defence."
"You did your full duty," added Benton--"but--good God!--it seems
incredible to me, that such power can actually be available in the
world!"
Recklow spoke again in his pleasant, undisturbed voice: "Go back to the
map, Miss Norne, and tell us a little more about this rather terrifying
thing which you believe menaces the civilised world with destruction."
Tressa Norne laid a slim finger on the map. Her voice had become steady.
She said:
"The devil-worship, of which one of the modern developments is
Bolshevism, and another the terrorism of the hun, began in Asia long
before Christ's advent: At least so it was taught us in the temple of
Erlik.
"It has always existed, its aim always has been the annihilation of good
and the elevation of evil; the subjection of right by might, and the
worldwide triumph of wrong.
"Perhaps it is as old as the first battle between God and Satan. I have
wondered about it, sometimes. There in the dusk of the temple when the
Eight Assassins came--the eight Sheiks-el-Djebel, all in white--chanting
the Yakase of Sabbah--always that dirge when they came and spread their
eight white shrouds on the temple steps----"
Her voice caught; she waited to recover her composure. Then went on:
"The ambition of Genghis was to conquer the world by force of arms. It
was merely of physical subjection that he dreamed. But the Slayer of
Souls----"
"Who?" asked Recklow sharply.
"The Slayer of Souls--Erlik's vice-regent on earth--Hassan Sabbah. The
Old Man of the Mountain. It is of him I am speaking," exclaimed Tressa
Norne--with quiet resolution. "Genghis sought only physical conquest of
man; the Yezidee's ambition is more awful, for he is attempting to
surprise and seize the very minds of men!"
There was a dead silence. Tressa looked palely upon the four.
"The Yezidees--who you tell me are not sorcerers--are using power--which
you tell me is not magic accursed by God--to waylay, capture, enslave,
and destroy the minds and souls of mankind.
"It may be that what they employ is hypnotic ability and psychic power
and can be, some day, explained on a scientific basis when we learn more
about the occult laws which govern these phenomena.
"But could anything render the threat less awful? For there have existed
for centuries--perhaps always--a sect of Satanists determined upon the
destruction of everything that is pure and holy and good on earth; and
they are resolved to substitute for righteousness the dreadful reign of
hell.
"In the beginning there were comparatively few of these human demons.
Gradually, through the eras, they have increased. In the twelfth century
there were fifty thousand of the Sect of Assassins.
"Beside the castle of the Slayer of Souls on Mount Alamout----" she laid
her finger on the map--"eight other towers were erected for the Eight
Chief Assassins, called Sheiks-el-Djebel.
"In the temple we were taught where these eight towers stood." She
picked up a pencil, and on eight blank spaces of unexplored and unmapped
Mongolia she made eight crosses. Then she turned to the men behind her.
"It was taught to us in the temple that from these eight foci of
infection the disease of evil has been spreading throughout the world;
from these eight towers have gone forth every year the emissaries of
evil--perverted missionaries--to spread the poisonous propaganda, to
teach it, to tamper stealthily with the minds of men, dominate them,
pervert them, instruct them in the creed of the Assassin of Souls.
"All over the world are people, already contaminated, whose minds are
already enslaved and poisoned, and who are infecting the still healthy
brains of others--stealthily possessing themselves of the minds of
mankind--teaching them evil, inviting them to mock the precepts of
Christ.
"Of such lost minds are the degraded brains of the Germans--the pastors
and philosophers who teach that might is right.
"Of such crippled minds are the Bolsheviki, poisoned long, long ago by
close contact with Asia which, before that, had infected and enslaved
the minds of the ruling classes with ferocious philosophy.
"Of such minds are all anarchists of every shade and stripe--all
terrorists, all disciples of violence,--the murderously envious, the
slothful slinking brotherhood which prowls through the world taking
every opportunity to set it afire; those mentally dulled by reason of
excesses; those weak intellects become unsound through futile
gabble,--parlour socialists, amateur revolutionists, theoretical
incapables excited by discussion fit only for healthy minds."
She left the map and came over to where the four men were seated
terribly intent upon her every word.
"In the temple of Erlik, where my girlhood was passed after the murder
of my parents, I learned what I am repeating to you," she said.
"I learned this, also, that the Eight Towers still exist--still stand
to-day,--at least theoretically--and that from the Eight Towers pours
forth across the world a stream of poison.
"I was told that, to every country, eight Yezidees were allotted--eight
sorcerers--or adepts in scientific psychology if you prefer it--whose
mission is to teach the gospel of hell and gradually but surely to win
the minds of men to the service of the Slayer of Souls.
"That is what was taught us in the temple. We were educated in the
development of occult powers--for it seems all human beings possess this
psychic power latent within them--only few, even when instructed,
acquire any ability to control and use this force....
"I--I learned--rapidly. I even thought, sometimes, that the Yezidees
were beginning to be a little afraid of me,--even the Hassani
priests.... And the Sheiks-el-Djebel, spreading their shrouds on the
temple steps, looked at me with unquiet eyes, where I stood like a
corpse amid the incense clouds----"
She passed her fingers over her eyelids, then framed her face between
both hands for a moment's thought lost in tragic retrospection.
"Kai!" she whispered dreamily as though to herself--"what Erlik awoke
within my body that was asleep, God knows, but it was as though a twin
comrade arose within me and looked out through my eyes upon a world
which never before had been visible."
Utter silence reigned in the room: Cleves's breathing seemed almost
painful to him so intently was he listening and watching this girl;
Benton's hands whitened with his grip on the chair-arms; Selden, tense,
absorbed, kept his keen gaze of a business man fastened on her face.
Recklow slowly caressed the cold bowl of his pipe with both thumbs.
Tressa Norne's strange and remote eyes subtly altered, and she lifted
her head and looked calmly at the men before her.
"I think that there is nothing more for me to add," she said. "The Red
Spectre of Anarchy, called Bolshevism at present, threatens our country.
Our Government is now awake to this menace and the Secret Service is
moving everywhere.
"Great damage already has been done to the minds of many people in this
Republic; poison has spread; is spreading. The Eight Towers still stand.
The Eight Assassins are in America.
"But these eight Assassins know me to be their enemy.... They will
surely attempt to kill me.... I don't believe I can avoid--death--very
long.... But I want to serve my country and--and mankind."
"They'll have to get me first," said Cleves, bluntly. "I shall not
permit you out of my sight."
Recklow said in a musing voice: "And these eight gentlemen, who are very
likely to hurt us, also, are the first people we ought to hunt."
"To get them," added Selden, "we ought to choke the stream at its
source."
"To find out who they are is what is going to worry us," added Benton.
Cleves had stood holding a chair for Tressa Norne. Finally she noticed
it and seated herself as though tired.
"Is Sanang one of these eight?" he asked her. The girl turned and looked
up at him, and he saw the flush mounting in her face.
"Sometimes," she said steadily, "I have almost believed he was Erlik's
own vice-regent on earth--the Slayer of Souls himself."
       *       *       *       *       *
Benton and Selden had gone. Recklow left a little later. Cleves
accompanied him out to the landing.
"Are you going to keep Miss Norne here with you for the present?"
inquired the older man.
"Yes. I dare not let her out of my sight, Recklow. What else can I do?"
"I don't know. Is she prepared for the consequences?"
"Gossip? Slander?"
"Of course."
"I can get a housekeeper."
"That only makes it look worse."
Cleves reddened. "Well, do you want to find her in some hotel or
apartment with her throat cut?"
"No," replied Recklow, gently, "I do not."
"Then what else is there to do but keep her here in my own apartment and
never let her out of my sight until we can find and lock up the eight
gentlemen who are undoubtedly bent on murdering her?"
"Isn't there some woman in the Service who could help out? I could
mention several."
"I tell you I can't trust Tressa Norne to anybody except myself,"
insisted Cleves. "I got her into this; I am responsible if she is
murdered; I dare not entrust her safety to anybody else. And, Recklow,
it's a ghastly responsibility for a man to induce a young girl to face
death, even in the service of her country."
"If she remains here alone with you she'll face social destruction,"
remarked Recklow.
Cleves was silent for a moment, then he burst out: "Well, what am I to
do? What is there left for me to do except to watch over her and see her
through this devilish business? What other way have I to protect her,
Recklow?"
"You could offer her the protection of your name," suggested the other,
carelessly.
"What? You mean--marry her?"
"Well, nobody else would be inclined to, Cleves, if it ever becomes
known she has lived here quite alone with you."
Cleves stared at the elder man.
"This is nonsense," he said in a harsh voice. "That young girl doesn't
want to marry anybody. Neither do I. She doesn't wish to have her throat
cut, that's all. And I'm determined she shan't."
"There are stealthier assassins, Cleves,--the slayers of reputations. It
goes badly with their victim. It does indeed."
"Well, hang it, what do you think I ought to do?"
"I think you ought to marry her if you're going to keep her here."
"Suppose she doesn't mind the unconventionality of it?"
"All women mind. No woman, at heart, is unconventional, Cleves."
"She--she seems to agree with me that she ought to stay here....
Besides, she has no money, no relatives, no friends in America----"
"All the more tragic. If you really believe it to be your duty to keep
her here where you can look after her bodily safety, then the other
obligation is still heavier. And there may come a day when Miss Norne
will wish that you had been less conscientious concerning the safety of
her pretty throat.... For the knife of the Yezidee is swifter and less
cruel than the tongue that slays with a smile.... And this young girl
has many years to live, after this business of Bolshevism is dead and
forgotten in our Republic."
"Recklow!"
"Yes?"
"You think I might dare try to find a room somewhere else for her and
let her take her chances? Do you?"
"It's your affair."
"I know--hang it! I know it's my affair. I've unintentionally made it
so. But can't you tell me what I ought to do?"
"I can't."
"What would you do?"
"Don't ask me," returned Recklow, sharply. "If you're not man enough to
come to a decision you may turn her over to me."
Cleves flushed brightly. "Do you think you are old enough to take my
job and avoid scandal?"
Recklow's cold eyes rested on him: "If you like," he said, "I'll assume
your various kinds of personal responsibility toward Miss Norne."
Cleve's visage burned. "I'll shoulder my own burdens," he retorted.
"Sure. I knew you would." And Recklow smiled and held out his hand.
Cleves took it without cordiality. Standing so, Recklow, still smiling,
said: "What a rotten deal that child has had--is having. Her father and
mother were fine people. Did you ever hear of Dr. Norne?"
"She mentioned him once."
"They were up-State people of most excellent antecedents and no money.
"Dr. Norne was our Vice-Consul at Yarkand in the province of Sin Kiang.
All he had was his salary, and he lost that and his post when the
administration changed. Then he went into the spice trade.
"Some Jew syndicate here sent him up the Yarkand River to see what could
be done about jade and gold concessions. He was on that business when
the tragedy happened. The Kalmuks and Khirghiz were responsible, under
Yezidee instigation. And there you are:--and here is his child,
Cleves--back, by some miracle, from that flowering hell called Yian,
believing in her heart that she really lost her soul there in the
temple. And now, here in her own native land, she is exposed to actual
and hourly danger of assassination.... Poor kid!... Did you ever hear of
a rottener deal, Cleves?"
Their hands had remained clasped while Recklow was speaking. He spoke
again, clearly, amiably:
"To lay down one's life for a friend is fine. I'm not sure that it's
finer to offer one's honour in behalf of a girl whose honour is at
stake."
After a moment Cleves's grip tightened.
"All right," he said.
Recklow went downstairs.
CHAPTER VI
IN BATTLE
Cleves went back into the apartment; he noticed that Miss Norne's door
was ajar.
To get to his own room he had to pass that way; and he saw her, seated
before the mirror, partly undressed, her dark, lustrous hair being
combed out and twisted up for the night.
Whether this carelessness was born of innocence or of indifference
mattered little; he suddenly realised that these conditions wouldn't do.
And his first feeling was of anger.
"If you'll put on your robe and slippers," he said in an unpleasant
voice, "I'd like to talk to you for a few moments."
She turned her head on its charming neck and looked around and up at him
over one naked shoulder.
"Shall I come into your room?" she inquired.
"No!... when you've got some clothes on, call me."
"I'm quite ready now," she said calmly, and drew the Chinese slippers
over her bare feet and passed a silken loop over the silver bell buttons
on her right shoulder. Then, undisturbed, she continued to twist up her
hair, following his movements in the mirror with unconcerned blue eyes.
He entered and seated himself, the impatient expression still creasing
his forehead and altering his rather agreeable features.
"Miss Norne," he said, "you're absolutely convinced that these people
mean to do you harm. Isn't that true?"
"Of course," she said simply.
"Then, until we get them, you're running a serious risk. In fact, you
live in hourly peril. That is your belief, isn't it?"
She put the last peg into her thick, curly hair, lowered her arms,
turned, dropped one knee over the other, and let her candid gaze rest on
him in silence.
"What I mean to explain," he said coldly, "is that as long as I induced
you to go into this affair I'm responsible for you. If I let you out of
my sight here in New York and if anything happens to you, I'll be as
guilty as the dirty beast who takes your life. What is your opinion?
It's up to me to stand by you now, isn't it?"
"I had rather be near you--for a while," she said timidly.
"Certainly. But, Miss Norne, our living here together, in my
apartment--or living together anywhere else--is never going to be
understood by other people. You know that, don't you?"
After a silence, still looking at him out of clear unembarrassed eyes:
"I know.... But ... I don't want to die."
"I told you," he said sharply, "they'll have to kill me first. So that's
all right. But how about what I am doing to your reputation?"
"I understand."
"I suppose you do. You're very young. Once out of this blooming mess,
you will have all your life before you. But if I kill your reputation
for you while saving your body from death, you'll find no happiness in
living. Do you realise that?"
"Yes."
"Well, then? Have you any solution for this problem that confronts you?"
"No."
"Haven't you any idea to suggest?"
"I don't--don't want to die," she repeated in an unsteady voice.
He bit his lip; and after a moment's scowling silence under the
merciless scrutiny of her eyes: "Then you had better marry me," he said.
It was some time before she spoke. For a second or two he sustained the
searching quality of her gaze, but it became unendurable.
Presently she said: "I don't ask it of you. I can shoulder my own
burdens." And he remembered what he had just said to Recklow.
"You've shouldered more than your share," he blurted out. "You are
deliberately risking death to serve your country. I enlisted you. The
least I can do is to say my affections are not engaged; so naturally the
idea of--of marrying anybody never entered my head."
"Then you do not care for anybody else?"
Her candour amazed and disconcerted him.
"No." He looked at her, curiously. "Do you care for anybody in that
way?"
A light blush tinted her face. She said gravely: "If we really are going
to marry each other I had better tell you that I did care for Prince
Sanang."
"What!" he cried, astounded.
"It seems incredible, doesn't it? Yet it is quite true. I fought him; I
fought myself; I stood guard over my mind and senses there in the
temple; I knew what he was and I detested him and I mocked him there in
the temple.... And I loved him."
"Sanang!" he repeated, not only amazed but also oddly incensed at the
naïve confession.
"Yes, Sanang.... If we are to marry, I thought I ought to tell you.
Don't you think so?"
"Certainly," he replied in an absent-minded way, his mind still grasping
at the thing. Then, looking up: "Do you still care for this fellow?"
She shook her head.
"Are you perfectly sure, Miss Norne?"
"As sure as that I am alive when I awake from a nightmare. My hatred for
Sanang is very bitter," she added frankly, "and yet somehow it is not my
wish to see him harmed."
"You still care for him a little?"
"Oh, no. But--can't you understand that it is not in me to wish him
harm?... No girl feels that way--once having cared. To become
indifferent to a familiar thing is perhaps natural; but to desire to
harm it is not in my character."
"You have plenty of character," he said, staring; at her.
"You don't think so. Do you?"
"Why not?"
"Because of what I said to you on the roof-garden that night. It was
shameful, wasn't it?"
"You behaved like many a thoroughbred," he returned bluntly; "you were
scared, bewildered, ready to bolt to any shelter offered."
"It's quite true I didn't know what to do to keep alive. And that was
all that interested me--to keep on living--having lost my soul and being
afraid to die and find myself in hell with Erlik."
He said: "Isn't that absurd notion out of your head yet?"
"I don't know ... I can't suddenly believe myself safe after all those
years. It is not easy to root out what was planted in childhood and what
grew to be part of one during the tender and formative period.... You
can't understand, Mr. Cleves--you can't ever feel or visualise what
became my daily life in a region which was half paradise and half
hell----"
She bent her head and took her face between her fingers, and sat so,
brooding.
After a little while: "Well," he said, "there's only one way to manage
this affair--if you are willing, Miss Norne."
She merely lifted her eyes.
"I think," he said, "there's only that one way out of it. But you
understand"--he turned pink--"it will be quite all right--your
liberty--privacy--I shan't bother you--annoy----"
She merely looked at him.
"After this Bolshevistic flurry is settled--in a year or two--or
three--then you can very easily get your freedom; and you'll have all
life before you" ... he rose: "--and a jolly good friend in me--a good
comrade, Miss Norne. And that means you can count on me when you go into
business--or whatever you decide to do."
She also had risen, standing slim and calm in her exquisite Chinese
robe, the sleeves of which covered her finger tips.
"Are you going to marry me?" she asked.
"If you'll let me."
"Yes--I will ... it's so generous and considerate of you. I--I don't ask
it; I really don't----"
"But I do."
"--And I never dreamed of such a thing."
He forced a smile. "Nor I. It's rather a crazy thing to do. But I know
of no saner alternative.... So we had better get our license
to-morrow.... And that settles it."
He turned to go; and, on her threshold, his feet caught in something on
the floor and he stumbled, trying to free his feet from a roll of soft
white cloth lying there on the carpet. And when he picked it up, it
unrolled, and a knife fell out of the folds of cloth and struck his
foot.
Still perplexed, not comprehending, he stooped to recover the knife.
Then, straightening up, he found himself looking into the colourless
face of Tressa Norne.
"What's all this?" he asked--"this sheet and knife here on the floor
outside your door?"
She answered with difficulty: "They have sent you your shroud, I think."
"Are not those things yours? Were they not already here in your
baggage?" he demanded incredulously. Then, realising that they had not
been there on the door-sill when he entered her room a few moments
since, a rough chill passed over him--the icy caress of fear.
"Where did that thing come from?" he said hoarsely. "How could it get
here when my door is locked and bolted? Unless there's somebody hidden
here!"
Hot anger suddenly flooded him; he drew his pistol and sprang into the
passageway.
"What the devil is all this!" he repeated furiously, flinging open his
bedroom door and switching on the light.
He searched his room in a rage, went on and searched the dining-room,
smoking-room, and kitchen, and every clothes-press and closet, always
aware of Tressa's presence close behind him. And when there remained no
tiniest nook or cranny in the place unsearched, he stood in the centre
of the carpet glaring at the locked and bolted door.
He heard her say under her breath: "This is going to be a sleepless
night. And a dangerous one." And, turning to stare at her, saw no fear
in her face, only excitement.
He still held clutched in his left hand the sheet and the knife. Now he
thrust these toward her.
"What's this damned foolery, anyway?" he demanded harshly. She took the
knife with a slight shudder. "There is something engraved on the silver
hilt," she said.
He bent over her shoulder.
"Eighur," she added calmly, "not Arabic. The Mongols had no written
characters of their own."
She bent closer, studying the inscription. After a moment, still
studying the Eighur characters, she rested her left hand on his
shoulder--an impulsive, unstudied movement that might have meant either
confidence or protection.
"Look," she said, "it is not addressed to you after all, but to a
symbol--a series of numbers, 53-6-26."
"That is my designation in the Federal Service," he said, sharply.
"Oh!" she nodded slowly. "Then this is what is written in the
Mongol-Yezidee dialect, traced out in Eighur characters: 'To 53-6-26! By
one of the Eight Assassins the Slayer of Souls sends this shroud and
this knife from Mount Alamout. Such a blade shall divide your heart.
This sheet is for your corpse.'"
After a grim silence he flung the soft white cloth on the floor.
"There's no use my pretending I'm not surprised and worried," he said;
"I don't know how that cloth got here. Do you?"
"It was sent."
"How?"
She shook her head and gave him a grave, confused look.
"There are ways. You could not understand.... This is going to be a
sleepless night for us."
"You can go to bed, Tressa. I'll sit up and read and keep an eye on that
door."
"I can't let you remain alone here. I'm afraid to do that."
He gave a laugh, not quite pleasant, as he suddenly comprehended that
the girl now considered their rôles to be reversed.
"Are you planning to sit up in order to protect me?" he asked,
grimly amused.
"Do you mind?"
"Why, you blessed little thing, I can take care of myself. How funny of
you, when I am trying to plan how best to look out for you!"
But her face remained pale and concerned, and she rested her left hand
more firmly on his shoulder.
"I wish to remain awake with you," she said. "Because I myself don't
fully understand this"--she looked at the knife in her palm, then down
at the shroud. "It is going to be a strange night for us," she sighed.
"Let us sit together here on the lounge where I can face that bolted
door. And if you are willing, I am going to turn out the lights----"
She suddenly bent forward and switched them off--"because I must keep my
mind on guard."
"Why do you do that?" he asked, "you can't see the door, now."
"Let me help you in my own way," she whispered. "I--I am very deeply
disturbed, and very, very angry. I do not understand this new menace.
Yezidee that I am, I do not understand what kind of danger threatens you
through your loyalty to me."
She drew him forward, and he opened his mouth to remonstrate, to laugh;
but as he turned, his foot touched the shroud, and an uncontrollable
shiver passed over him.
They went close together, across the dim room to the lounge, and seated
themselves. Enough light from Madison Avenue made objects in the room
barely discernible.
       *       *       *       *       *
Sounds from the street below became rarer as the hours wore away. The
iron jar of trams, the rattle of vehicles, the harsh warning of taxicabs
broke the stillness at longer and longer intervals, until, save only for
that immense and ceaseless vibration of the monstrous iron city under
the foggy stars, scarcely a sound stirred the silence.
The half-hour had struck long ago on the bell of the little clock. Now
the clear bell sounded three times.
Cleves stirred on the lounge beside Tressa. Again and again he had
thought that she was asleep for her head had fallen back against the
cushions, and she lay very still. But always, when he leaned nearer to
peer down at her, he saw her eyes open, and fixed intently upon the
bolted door.
His pistol, which still rested on his knee, was pointed across the room,
toward the door. Once he reminded her in a whisper that she was unarmed
and that it might be as well for her to go and get her pistol. But she
murmured that she was sufficiently equipped; and, in spite of himself,
he shivered as he glanced down at her frail and empty hands.
It was some time between three and half-past, he judged, when a sudden
movement of the girl brought him upright on his seat, quivering with
excitement.
"Mr. Cleves!"
"Yes?"
"The Sorcerers!"
"Where? Outside the door?"
"Oh, my God," she murmured, "they are after my mind again! Their
fingers are groping to seize my brain and get possession of it!"
"What!" he stammered, horrified.
"Here--in the dark," she whispered--"and I feel their fingers
caressing me--searching--moving stealthily to surprise and grasp my
thoughts.... I know what they are doing.... I am resisting.... I am
fighting--fighting!"
She sat bolt upright with clenched hands at her breast, her face palely
aglow in the dimness as though illumined by some vivid inward light--or,
as he thought--from the azure blaze in her wide-open eyes.
"Is--is this what you call--what you believe to be magic?" he asked
unsteadily. "Is there some hostile psychic influence threatening you?"
"Yes. I'm resisting. I'm fighting--fighting. They shall not trap me.
They shall not harm you!... I know how to defend myself and you!... And
you!"
Suddenly she flung her left arm around his neck and the delicate
clenched hand brushed his cheek.
"They shall not have you," she breathed. "I am fighting. I am holding my
own. There are eight of them--eight Assassins! My mind is in battle with
theirs--fiercely in battle.... I hold my own! I am armed and waiting!"
With a convulsive movement she drew his head closer to her shoulder.
"Eight of them!" she whispered,--"trying to entrap and seize my brain.
But my thoughts are free! My mind is defending you--you, here in my
arms!"
After a breathless silence: "Look out!" she whispered with terrible
energy; "they are after your mind at last. Fix your thoughts on me!
Keep your mind clear of their net! Don't let their ghostly fingers touch
it. Look at me!" She drew him closer. "Look at me! Believe in me! I
can resist. I can defend you. Does your head feel confused?"
"Yes--numb."
"Don't sleep! Don't close your eyes! Keep them open and look at me!"
"I can scarcely see you----"
"You must see me!"
"My eyes are heavy," he said drowsily. "I can't see you, Tressa----"
"Wake! Look at me! Keep your mind clear. Oh, I beg you--I beg you!
They're after our minds and souls, I tell you! Oh, believe in me," she
beseeched him in an agonised whisper--"Can't you believe in me for a
moment,--as if you loved me!"
His heavy lids lifted and he tried to look at her.
"Can you see me? Can you?"
He muttered something in a confused voice.
"Victor!"
At the sound of his own name, he opened his eyes again and tried to
straighten up, but his pistol fell to the carpet.
"Victor!" she gasped, "clear your mind in the name of God!"
"I can not----"
"I tell you hell is opening beyond that door!--outside your bolted door,
there! Can't you believe me! Can't you hear me! Oh, what will hold you
if the love of God can not!" she burst out. "I'd crucify myself for you
if you'd look at me--if you'd only fight hard enough to believe in
me--as though you loved me!"
His eyes unclosed but he sank back against her shoulder.
"Victor!" she cried in a terrible voice.
There was no answer.
"If the love of God could only hold you for a moment more!"--she
stammered with her mouth against his ear, "just for a moment, Victor!
Can't you hear me?"
"Yes--very far away."
"Fight for me! Try to care for me! Don't let Sanang have me!"
He shuddered in her arms, reached out and resting heavily on her
shoulder, staggered to his feet and stood swaying like a drunken man.
"No, by God," he said thickly, "Sanang shall not touch you."
The girl was on her feet now, holding him upright with an arm around his
shoulders.
"They can't--can't harm us together," she stammered. "Hark! Listen! Can
you hear? Oh, can you hear?"
"Give me my pistol," he tried to say, but his tongue seemed twisted.
"No--by God--Sanang shall not touch you."
She stooped lithely and recovered the weapon. "Hush," she said close to
his burning face. "Listen. Our minds are safe! I can hear somebody's
soul bidding its body farewell!"
White-lipped she burst out laughing, kicked the shroud out of the way,
thrust the pistol into his right hand, went forward, forcing him along
beside her, and drew the bolts from the door.
Suddenly he spoke distinctly:
"Is there anything outside that door on the landing?"
"Yes.... I don't know what. Are you ready?" She laid her hand on lock
and knob.
He nodded. At the same instant she jerked open the door; and a hunchback
who had been picking at the lock fell headlong into the room, his pistol
exploding on the carpet in a streak of fire.
It was a horrible struggle to secure the powerful misshapen creature,
for he clawed and squealed and bounced about on the floor, striking
blindly with ape-like arms. But at last Cleves held him down, throttled
and twitching, and Tressa ripped strips from the shroud to truss up the
writhing thing.
Then Cleves switched on the light.
"Why--why--you rat!" he exclaimed in hysterical relief at seeing a
living man whom he recognised there at his feet. "What are you doing
here?"
The hunchback's red eyes blazed up at him from the floor.
"Who--who is he?" faltered the girl.
"He's a German tailor named Albert Feke--one of the Chicago
Bolsheviki--the most dangerous sort we harbour--one of their vile
leaders who preaches that might is right and tells his disciples to go
ahead and take what they want."
He looked down at the malignant cripple.
"You're wanted for the I. W. W. bomb murder, Albert. Did you know it?"
The hunchback licked his bloody lips. Then he kicked himself to a
sitting position, squatted there like a toad and looked steadily at
Tressa Norne out of small red-rimmed eyes. Blood dripped on his beard;
his huge hairy fists, tied and crossed behind his back, made odd,
spasmodic movements.
Cleves went to the telephone. Presently Tressa heard his voice, calm and
distinct as usual:
"We've caught Albert Feke. He's here at my rooms. I'd like to have you
come over, Recklow.... Oh, yes, he kicked and scuffled and scratched
like a cat.... What?... No, I hadn't heard that he'd been in China....
Who?... Albert Feke? You say he was one of the Germans who escaped from
Shantung four years ago?... You think he's a Yezidee! You mean one of
the Eight Assassins?"
The hunchback, staring at Tressa out of red-rimmed eyes, suddenly
snarled and lurched his misshapen body at her.
"Teufelstuck!" he screamed, "ain't I tell efferybody in Yian
already it iss safer if we cut your throat! Devil-slut of
Erlik--snow-leopardess!--cat of the Yezidees who has made of Sanang a
fool!--it iss I who haf said always, always, that you know too damn
much!... Kai!... I hear my soul bidding me farewell. Gif me my shroud!"
Cleves came back from the telephone. With the toe of his left foot he
lifted the shroud and kicked it across the hunchback's knees.
"So you were one of the huns who instigated the massacre in Yian," he
said, curiously. At that Tressa turned very white and a cry escaped her.
But the hunchback's features were all twisted into ferocious laughter,
and he beat on the carpet with the heels of his great splay feet.
"Ja! Ja!" he shrieked, "in Yian it vas a goot hunting! English and
Yankee men und vimmens ve haff dropped into dose deep wells down. Py
Gott in Himmel, how dey schream up out of dose deep wells in Yian!" He
began to cackle and shriek in his frenzy. "Ach Gott ja! It iss not you
either--you there, Keuke Mongol, who shall escape from the
Sheiks-el-Djebel! It iss dot Old Man of the Mountain who shall tell your
soul it iss time to say farewell! Ja! Ja! Ach Gott!--it iss my only
regret that I shall not see the world when it is all afire! Ja! Ja!--all
on fire like hell! But you shall see it, slut-leopard of the snows! You
shall see it und you shall burn! Kai! Kai! My soul it iss bidding my
body farewell. Kai! May Erlik curse you, Keuke Mongol--Heavenly
Azure--Sorceress of the temple!--"
He spat at her and rolled over in his shroud.
The girl looking down on him closed her eyes for a moment, and Cleves
saw her bloodless lips move, and bent nearer, listening. And he heard
her whispering to herself:
"Preserve us all, O God, from the wrath of Satan who was stoned."
CHAPTER VII
THE BRIDAL
Over the United States stretched an unseen network of secret
intrigue woven tirelessly night and day by the busy enemies of
civilisation--Reds, parlour-socialists, enemy-aliens, terrorists,
Bolsheviki, pseudo-intellectuals, I. W. W.'s, social faddists, and
amateur meddlers of every nuance--all the various varieties of the
vicious, witless, and mentally unhinged--brought together through the
"cohesive power of plunder" and the degeneration of cranial tissue.
All over the United States the various departmental divisions of the
Secret Service were busily following up these threads of intrigue
leading everywhere through the obscurity of this vast and secret maze.
To meet the constantly increasing danger of physical violence and to
uncover secret plots threatening sabotage and revolution, there were
capable agents in every branch of the Secret Service, both Federal and
State.
But in the first months of 1919 something more terrifying than physical
violence suddenly threatened civilised America,--a wild, grotesque,
incredible threat of a war on human minds!
And, little by little, the United States Government became convinced
that this ghastly menace was no dream of a disordered imagination, but
that it was real: that among the enemies of civilisation there actually
existed a few powerful but perverted minds capable of wielding psychic
forces as terrific weapons: that by the sinister use of psychic
knowledge controlling these mighty forces the very minds of mankind
could be stealthily approached, seized, controlled and turned upon
civilisation to aid in the world's destruction.
In terrible alarm the Government turned to England for advice. But Sir
William Crookes was dead.
However, in England, Sir Conan Doyle immediately took up the matter, and
in America Professor Hyslop was called into consultation.
And then, when the Government was beginning to realise what this awful
menace meant, and that there were actually in the United States possibly
half a dozen people who already had begun to carry on a diabolical
warfare by means of psychic power, for the purpose of enslaving and
controlling the very minds of men,--then, in the terrible moment of
discovery, a young girl landed in America after fourteen years' absence
in Asia.
And this was the amazing girl that Victor Cleves had just married, at
Recklow's suggestion, and in the line of professional duty,--and moral
duty, perhaps.
It had been a brief, matter-of-fact ceremony. John Recklow, of the
Secret Service, was there; also Benton and Selden of the same service.
The bride's lips were unresponsive; cold as the touch of the groom's
unsteady hand.
She looked down at her new ring in a blank sort of way, gave her hand
listlessly to Recklow and to the others in turn, whispered a timidly
comprehensive "Thank you," and walked away beside Cleves as though
dazed.
There was a taxicab waiting. Tressa entered. Recklow came out and spoke
to Cleves in a low voice.
"Don't worry," replied Cleves dryly. "That's why I married her."
"Where are you going now?" inquired Recklow.
