posters, swarmed with unfamiliar people. Every other pedestrian seemed
to be a soldier; every other vehicle contained a uniform.
There were innumerable varieties of military dress in the thronged
streets; there was the universal note of khaki and olive drab,
terminating in leather vizored barrack cap or jaunty overseas service
cap, and in spiral puttees, leather ones, or spurred boots.
Silver wings of aviators glimmered on athletic chests; chevrons, wound
stripes, service stripes, an endless variety of insignia.
Here the grey-green and oxidised metal of the marines predominated;
there, the conspicuous sage-green and gold of naval aviators. On
campaign hats were every hue of hat cord; the rich gilt and blue of
naval officers and the blue and white of their jackies were everywhere
to be encountered.
And then everywhere, also, the brighter hue and exotic cut of foreign
uniforms was apparent--splashes of gayer tints amid khaki and sober
civilian garb--the beautiful garance and horizon-blue of French
officers; the familiar "brass hat" of the British; the grey-blue and
maroon of Italians. And there were stranger uniforms in varieties
inexhaustible--the schapska-shaped head-gear of Polish officers, the
beret of Czecho-Slovaks. And everywhere, too, the gay and well-known
red pom-pon bobbed on the caps of French blue-jackets, and British
marines stalked in pairs, looking every inch the soldier with their
swagger sticks and their vizorless forage-caps.
Always, it seemed to Palla, there was military music to be heard above
the roar of traffic--sometimes the drums and bugles of foreign
detachments, arrived in aid of "drives" and loans of various sorts.
Ambulances painted grey and bright blue, and driven by smartly
uniformed young women, were everywhere.
And to women's uniforms there seemed no end, ranging all the way from
the sober blue of the army nurse and the pretty white of the Red
Cross, to bizarre but smart effects carried smartly by well set up
girls representing scores of service corps, some invaluable, some of
doubtful utility.
Eagle huts, canteens, soldiers' rest houses, Red Cross quarters,
clubs, temporary barracks, peppered the city. Everywhere the service
flags were visible, also, telling their proud stories in five-pointed
symbols--sometimes tragic, where gold stars glittered.
Never had New York seemed to contain so many people; never had the
overflow so congested avenue and street, circle and square, and the
wretchedly inadequate and dirty street-car and subway service.
And into the heart of it all went Palla, engulfed in the great tides
of Fifth Avenue, drifting into quieter back-waters to east and west,
and sometimes caught and tossed about in the glittering maelstrom of
Broadway when she ventured into the theatre district.
Opera, comedy, musical show and cinema interested her; restaurant and
cabaret she had evaded, so far, but what most excited and fascinated
her was the people themselves--these eager, restless moving millions
swarming through the city day and night, always in motion under blue
skies or falling rain, perpetually in quest of what the world
eternally offered, eternally concealed--that indefinite, glimmering
thing called "heart's desire."
To discover, to comprehend, to help, to guide their myriad aspirations
in the interminable and headlong hunt for happiness, was, to Palla,
the most vital problem in the world.
For her there existed only one solution of this problem: the Law of
Love.
And in this world-wide Hunt for Happiness, where scrambling millions
followed the trail of Heart's Desire, she saw the mad huntsman, Folly,
leading, and Black Care, the whipper-in; and, at the bitter end, only
the bones of the world's woe; and a Horseman seated on his Pale
Horse.
But the problem that still remained was how to swerve the headlong
hunt to the true trail toward the only goal where the world's quarry,
happiness, lies asleep.
How to make service the Universal Heart's Desire? How to transfigure
self-love into Love?
To preach her faith from the street corners--to cry it aloud in the
wilderness where no ear heeded--violence, aggression, the campaign
militant, had never appealed to the girl.
Like her nation, only when cornered did she blaze out and strike. But
to harangue, threaten, demand of the world that it accept the Law of
Service and of Love, seemed to her a mockery of the faith she had
embraced, which, unless irrevocably in liaison with freedom, was no
faith at all.
So, for Palla, the solution lay in loyalty to the faith she professed;
in living it; in swaying ignorance by example; in overcoming
incredulity by service, scepticism by love.
Love and Service? Why, all around her among these teeming millions
were examples--volunteers in khaki, their sisters in the garments of
mercy! Why must the world stop there? This was the right scent. Why
should the hunt swerve for the devil's herring drawn across the
trail?
One for all; all for one! She had read it on one of the war-posters.
Somebody had taken the splendid Guardsman's creed and had made it the
slogan for this war against darkness.
And that was her creed--the true faith--the Law of Love. Then, was it
good only in war? Why not make it the nation's creed? Why not emblazon
it on the wall of every city on earth?--one for all; all for one;
Love, Service, Freedom!
Before such a faith, autocracy and tyranny die. Under such a law
every evil withers, every question is unravelled. There are no more
problems of poverty and riches, none of greed and oppression.
The tyranny of convention, of observance, of taboo, of folkways, ends.
And into the brain of all living beings will be born the perfect
comprehension of their own indestructible divinity.
                  *       *       *       *       *
Part of this she ventured to say to Ilse Westgard one day, when they
had met for luncheon in a modest tea-room on Forty-third Street.
But Ilse, always inclined toward militancy, did not entirely agree
with Palla.
"To embody in one's daily life the principles of one's living faith is
scarcely sufficient," she said. "Good is a force, not an inert
condition. So is evil. And we should not sit still while evil moves."
"Example is not inertia," protested Palla.
"Example, alone, is sterile, I think," said the ex-girl-soldier of the
Battalion of Death, buttering a crescent. She ate it with the
delightful appetite of flawless health, and poured out more
chocolate.
"For instance, dear," she went on, "the forces of evil--of degeneration,
ignorance, envy, ferocity, are gathering like a tornado in Russia.
Virtuous example, sucking its thumbs and minding its own business, will
be torn to fragments when the storm breaks."
"The Bolsheviki?"
"The Reds. The Terrorists, I mean. You know as well as I do what they
really are--merely looters skulking through the smoke of a world in
flames--buzzards on the carcass of a civilisation dead. But, Palla,
they do not sit still and suck their thumbs and say, 'I am a
Terrorist. Behold me and be converted.' No, indeed! They are moving,
always in motion, preoccupied by their hellish designs."
"In Russia, yes," admitted Palla.
"Everywhere, dearest. Here, also."
"I believe there are scarcely any in America," insisted Palla.
"The country crawls with them," retorted Ilse. "They work like moles,
but already if you look about you can see the earth stirring above
their tunnels. They are here, everywhere, active, scheming, plotting,
whispering treason, stirring discontent, inciting envy, teaching
treason.
"They are the Russians--Christians and Jews--who have filtered in here
to do the nation mischief. They are the Germans who blew up factories,
set fires, scuttled ships. They are foreigners who came here poisoned
with envy; who have acquired nothing; whose greed and ferocity are
whetted and ready for a universal conflagration by which they alone
could profit.
"They are the labour leaders who break faith and incite to violence;
they are the I. W. W.; they are the Black Hand, the Camorra; they are
the penniless who would slay and rob; the landless who would kill and
seize; the ignorant, nursing suspicion; the shiftless, brooding crimes
to bring them riches quickly.
"And, Palla, your Law of Love and Service is good. But not for
these."
"What law for them, then?"
"Education. Maybe with machine guns."
Palla shook her head. "Is that the way to educate defectives?"
"When they come at you en masse, yes!"
Palla laughed. "Dear," she said, "there is no nation-wide Terrorist
plot. These mental defectives are not in mass anywhere in America."
"They are in dangerous groups everywhere. And every group is devoting
its cunning to turning the working masses into a vast mob of the Black
Hundred! They did it in Russia. They are working for it all over the
world. You do not believe it?"
"No, I don't, Ilse."
"Very well. You shall come with me this evening. Are you busy?"
The thought of Jim glimmered in her mind. He might feel aggrieved. But
he ought to begin to realise that he couldn't be with her every
evening.
"No, I haven't any plans, Ilse," she said, "no definite engagement, I
mean. Will you dine at home with me?"
"Early, then. Because there is a meeting which you and I shall attend.
It is an education."
"An anarchist meeting?"
"Yes, Reds. I think we should go--perhaps take part----"
"What?"
"Why not? I shall not listen to lies and remain silent!" said Ilse,
laughing. "The Revolution was good. But the Bolsheviki are nothing but
greedy thieves and murderers. You and I know that. If anybody teaches
people the contrary, I certainly shall have something to say."
Palla desired to purchase silk for sofa pillows, having acquired a
chaise-longue for her bedroom.
So she and Ilse went out into the sunshine and multi-coloured crowd;
and all the afternoon they shopped very blissfully--which meant, also,
lingering before store windows, drifting into picture-galleries,
taking tea at Sherry's, and finally setting out for home through a
beflagged avenue jammed with traffic.
Dusk fell early but the drooping, orange-tinted globes which had
replaced the white ones on the Fifth Avenue lamps were not yet
lighted; and there still remained a touch of sunset in the sky when
they left the bus.
At the corner of Palla's street, there seemed to be an unusual
congestion, and now, above the noise of traffic, they caught the sound
of a band; and turned at the curb to see, supposing it to be a
military music.
The band was a full one, not military, wearing a slatternly sort of
uniform but playing well enough as they came up through the thickening
dusk, marching close to the eastern curb of the avenue.
They were playing The Marseillaise. Four abreast, behind them,
marched a dingy column of men and women, mostly of foreign aspect and
squatty build, carrying a flag which seemed to be entirely red.
Palla, perplexed, incredulous, yet almost instantly suspecting the
truth, stared at the rusty ranks, at the knots of red ribbon on every
breast.
Other people were staring, too, as the unexpected procession came
shuffling along--late shoppers, business men returning home,
soldiers--all paused to gaze at this sullen visaged battalion clumping
up the avenue.
"Surely," said Palla to Ilse, "these people can't be Reds!"
"Surely they are!" returned the tall, fair girl calmly. Her face had
become flushed, and she stepped to the edge of the curb, her blue,
wrathful eyes darkening like sapphires.
A soldier came up beside her. Others, sailors and soldiers, stopped
to look. There was a red flag passing. Suddenly Ilse stepped from the
sidewalk, wrenched the flag from the burly Jew who carried it, and,
with the same movement, shattered the staff across her knee.
Men and women in the ranks closed in on her; a shrill roar rose from
them, but the soldiers and sailors, cheering and laughing, broke into
the enraged ranks, tearing off red rosettes, cuffing and kicking the
infuriated Terrorists, seizing every seditious banner, flag, emblem
and placard in sight.
Female Reds, shrieking with rage, clawed, kicked and bit at soldier,
sailor and civilian. A gaunt man, with a greasy bunch of hair under a
bowler, waved dirty hands above the mêlée and shouted that he had the
Mayor's permission to parade.
Everywhere automobiles were stopping, crowds of people hurrying up,
policemen running. The electric lights snapped alight, revealed a mob
struggling there in the yellowish glare.
Ilse had calmly stepped to the sidewalk, the fragments of flag and
staff in her white-gloved hands; and, as she saw the irresponsible
soldiers and blue-jackets wading lustily into the Reds--saw the lively
riot which her own action had started--an irresistible desire to laugh
seized her.
Clear and gay above the yelling of Bolsheviki and the "Yip--yip!" of
the soldiers, peeled her infectious laughter. But Palla, more gentle,
stood with dark eyes dilated, fearful of real bloodshed in the furious
scene raging in the avenue before her.
A little shrimp of a Terrorist, a huge red rosette streaming from his
buttonhole, suddenly ran at Ilse and seized the broken staff and the
rags of the red flag. And Palla, alarmed, caught him by the
coat-collar and dragged him screeching and cursing away from her
friend, rebuking him in a firm but excited voice.
Ilse came over, shouldering her superb figure through the crowd;
looked at the human shrimp a moment; then her laughter pealed anew.
"That's the man who abused me in Denmark!" she said. "Oh, Palla,
look at him! Do you really believe you could educate a thing like
that!"
The man had wriggled free, and now he turned a flat, whiskered visage
on Palla, menaced her with both soiled fists, inarticulate in his
fury.
But police were everywhere, now, sweeping this miniature riot from the
avenue, hustling the Reds uptown, checking the skylarking soldiery,
sending amused or indignant citizens about their business.
A burly policeman said to Ilse with a grin: "I'll take what's left of
that red flag, Miss;" and the girl handed it to him still laughing.
Soldiers wearing overseas caps cheered her and Palla. Everybody on the
turbulent sidewalk was now laughing.
"D'yeh see that blond nab the red flag outer that big kike's fists?"
shouted one soldier to his sweating bunkie. "Some skirt!"
"God love the Bolsheviki she grabs by the slack o' the pants!" cried a
blue-jacket who had lost his cap. A roar followed.
"Only one flag in this little old town!" yelled a citizen nursing a
cut cheek with reddened handkerchief.
"G'wan, now!" grumbled a policeman, trying to look severe; "it's all
over; they's nothing to see. Av ye got homes----"
"Yip! Where do we go from here?" demanded a marine.
"Home!" repeated the policeman; "--that's the answer. G'wan, now,
peaceable--lave these ladies pass!----"
Ilse and Palla, still walled in by a grinning, admiring soldiery, took
advantage of the opening and fled, followed by cheers as far as
Palla's door.
"Good heavens, Ilse," she exclaimed in fresh dismay, as she began to
realise the rather violent rôles they both had played, "--is that your
idea of education for the masses?"
A servant answered the bell and they entered the house. And presently,
seated on the chaise-longue in Palla's bedroom, Ilse Westgard
alternately gazed upon her ruined white gloves and leaned against the
cane back, weak with laughter.
"How funny! How degrading! But how funny!" she kept repeating. "That
large and enraged Jew with the red flag!--the wretched little
Christian shrimp you carried wriggling away by the collar! Oh, Palla!
Palla! Never shall I forget the expression on your face--like a bored
housewife, who, between thumb and forefinger, carries a dead mouse by
the tail----"
"He was trying to kick you, my dear," explained Palla, beginning to
remove the hairpins from her hair.
Ilse touched her eyes with her handkerchief.
"They might have thrown bombs," she said. "It's all very well to
laugh, darling, but sometimes such affairs are not funny."
Palla, seated at her dresser, shook down a mass of thick, bright-brown
hair, and picked up her comb.
"I am wondering," she said, turning partly toward Ilse, "what Jim
Shotwell would think of me."
"Fighting on the street!"--her laughter rang out uncontrolled. And
Palla, too, was laughing rather uncertainly, for, as her recollection
of the affair became more vivid, her doubts concerning the entire
procedure increased.
"Of course," she said, "that red flag was outrageous, and you were
quite right in destroying it. One could hardly buttonhole such a
procession and try to educate it."
Ilse said: "One can usually educate a wild animal, but never a rabid
one. You'll see, to-night."
"Where are we going, dear?"
"We are going to a place just west of Seventh Avenue, called the Red
Flag Club."
"Is it a club?"
"No. The Reds hire it several times a week and try to fill it with
people. There is the menace to this city and to the nation, Palla--for
these cunning fomenters of disorder deluge the poorer quarters of the
town with their literature. That's where they get their audiences. And
that is where are being born the seeds of murder and destruction."
Palla, combing out her hair, gazed absently into the mirror.
"Why should not we do the same thing?" she asked.
"Form a club, rent a room, and talk to people?"
"Yes; why not?" asked Palla.
"That is exactly why I wish you to come with me to-night--to realise
how we should combat these criminal and insane agents of all that is
most terrible in Europe.
"And you are right, Palla; that is the way to fight them. That is the
way to neutralise the poison they are spreading. That is the way to
educate the masses to that sane socialism in which we both believe. It
can be done by education. It can be done by matching them with club
for club, meeting for meeting, speech for speech. And when, in some
local instances, it can not be done that way, then, if there be
disorder, force!"
"It can be done entirely by education," said Palla. "But remember!--Marx
gave the forces of disorder their slogan--'Unite!' Only a rigid
organisation of sane civilisation can meet that menace."
"You are very right, darling, and a club to combat the Bolsheviki
already exists. Vanya and Marya already have joined; there are workmen
and working women, college professors and college graduates among its
members. Some, no doubt, will be among the audience at the Red Flag
Club to-night.
"I shall join this club. I think you, also, will wish to enroll. It is
called only 'Number One.' Other clubs are to be organised and
numbered.
"And now you see that, in America, the fight against organised
rascality and exploited insanity has really begun."
Palla, her hair under discipline once more, donned a fresh but severe
black gown. Ilse unpinned her hat, made a vigorous toilet, then
lighted a cigarette and sauntered into the living room where the
telephone was ringing persistently.
"Please answer," said Palla, fastening her gown before the pier
glass.
Presently Ilse called her: "It's Mr. Shotwell, dear."
Palla came into the room and picked up the receiver:
"Yes? Oh, good evening, Jim! Yes.... Yes, I am going out with Ilse....
Why, no, I had no engagement with you, Jim! I'm sorry, but I didn't
understand--No; I had no idea that you expected to see me--wait a
moment, please!"--she put one hand over the transmitter, turned to
Ilse with flushed cheeks and a shyly interrogative smile: "Shall I
ask him to dine with us and go with us?"
"If you choose," called Ilse, faintly amused.
Then Palla called him: "--Jim! Come to dinner at once. And wear your
business clothes.... What?... Yes, your every day clothes.... What?...
Why, because I ask you, Jim. Isn't that a reason?... Thank you....
Yes, come immediately.... Good-bye, de----"
She coloured crimson, hung up the receiver, and picked up the evening
paper, not daring to glance at Ilse.
CHAPTER XI
When Shotwell arrived, dinner had already been announced, and Palla
and Ilse Westgard were in the unfurnished drawing-room, the former on
a step-ladder, the latter holding that collapsible machine with one
hand and Palla's ankle with the other.
Palla waved a tape-measure in airy salute: "I'm trying to find out how
many yards it takes for my curtains," she explained. But she climbed
down and gave him her hand; and they went immediately into the
dining-room.
"What's all this nonsense about the Red Flag Club?" he inquired, when
they were seated. "Do you and Ilse really propose going to that dirty
anarchist joint?"
"How do you know it's dirty?" demanded Palla, "--or do you mean it's
only morally dingy?"
Both she and Ilse appeared to be in unusually lively spirits, and they
poked fun at him when he objected to their attending the meeting in
question.
"Very well," he said, "but there may be a free fight. There was a row
on Fifth Avenue this evening, where some of those rats were parading
with red flags."
Palla laughed and cast a demure glance at Ilse.
"What is there to laugh at?" demanded Jim. "There was a small riot on
Fifth Avenue! I met several men at the club who witnessed it."
The sea-blue eyes of Ilse were full of mischief. He was aware of
Palla's subtle exhilaration, too.
"Why hunt for a free fight?" he asked.
"Why avoid one if it's free?" retorted Ilse, gaily.
They all laughed.
"Is that your idea of liberty?" he asked Palla.
"What is all human progress but a free fight?" she retorted. "Of
course," she added, "Ilse means an intellectual battle. If they
misbehave otherwise, I shall flee."
"I don't see why you want to go to hear a lot of Reds talk bosh," he
remarked. "It isn't like you, Palla."
"It is like me. You see you don't really know me, Jim," she added
with smiling malice.
"The main thing," said Ilse, "is for one to be one's self. Palla and I
are social revolutionists. Revolutionists revolt. A revolt is a row.
There can be no row unless people fight."
He smiled at their irresponsible gaiety, a little puzzled by it and a
little uneasy.
"All right," he said, as coffee was served; "but it's just as well
that I'm going with you."
The ex-girl-soldier gave him an amused glance, lighted a cigarette,
glanced at her wrist-watch, then rose lightly to her graceful,
athletic height, saying that they ought to start.
So they went away to pin on their hats, and Jim called a taxi.
                  *       *       *       *       *
The hall was well filled when they arrived. There was a rostrum, on
which two wooden benches faced a table and a chair in the centre. On
the table stood a pitcher of drinking water, a soiled glass, and a jug
full of red carnations.
A dozen men and women occupied the two benches. At the table a man
sat writing. He held a lighted cigar in one hand; a red silk
handkerchief trailed from his coat pocket.
                  *       *       *       *       *
As Ilse and Palla seated themselves on an empty bench and Shotwell
found a place beside them, somebody on the next bench beyond leaned
over and bade them good evening in a low voice.
"Mr. Brisson!" exclaimed Palla, giving him her hand in unfeigned
pleasure.
Brisson shook hands, also, with Ilse, cordially, and then was
introduced to Jim.
"What are you doing here?" he inquired humorously of Palla. "And, by
the way,"--dropping his voice--"these Reds don't exactly love me, so
don't use my name."
Palla nodded and whispered to Jim: "He secured all that damning
evidence at the Smolny for our Government."
Brisson and Ilse were engaged in low-voiced conversation: Palla
ventured to look about her.
The character of the gathering was foreign. There were few American
features among the faces, but those few were immeasurably superior
in type--here and there the intellectual, spectacled visage of
some educated visionary, lured into the red tide and left there
drifting;--here and there some pale girl, carelessly dressed, seated
with folded hands, and intense gaze fixed on space.
But the majority of these people, men and women, were foreign in
aspect--round, bushy heads with no backs to them were everywhere;
muddy skins, unhealthy skins, loose mouths, shifty eyes!--everywhere
around her Palla saw the stigma of degeneracy.
She said in a low voice to Jim: "These poor things need to be properly
housed and fed before they're taught. Education doesn't interest empty
stomachs. And when they're given only poison to stop the pangs--what
does civilisation expect?"
He said: "They're a lot of bums. The only education they require is
with a night-stick."
"That's cruel, Jim."
"It's law."
"One of your laws which does not appeal to me," she remarked, turning
to Brisson, who was leaning over to speak to her.
"There are half a dozen plain-clothes men in the audience," he said.
"There are Government detectives here, too. I rather expect they'll
stop the proceedings before the programme calls for it."
Jim turned to look back. A file of policemen entered and carelessly
took up posts in the rear of the hall. Hundreds of flat-backed heads
turned, too; hundreds of faces darkened; a low muttering arose from
the benches.
Then the man at the table on the rostrum got up abruptly, and pulled
out his red handkerchief as though to wipe his face.
At the sudden flourish of the red fabric, a burst of applause came
from the benches. Orator and audience were en rapport; the former
continued to wave the handkerchief, under pretence of swabbing his
features, but the intention was so evident and the applause so
enlightening that a police officer came part way down the aisle and
held up a gilded sleeve.
"Hey!" he called in a bored voice, "Cut that out! See!"
"That man on the platform is Max Sondheim," whispered Brisson. "He'll
skate on thin ice before he's through."
Sondheim had already begun to speak, ignoring the interruption from
the police:
"The Mayor has got cold feet," he said with a sneer. "He gave us a
permit to parade, but when the soldiers attacked us his police clubbed
us. That's the kind of government we got."
"Shame!" cried a white-faced girl in the audience.
"Shame?" repeated Sondheim ironically. "What's shame to a cop? They
got theirs all the same----"
"That's enough!" shouted the police captain sharply. "Any more of that
and I'll run you in!"
Sondheim's red-rimmed eyes measured the officer in silence for a
moment.
"I have the privilege," he said to his audience, "of introducing to
you our comrade, Professor Le Vey."
"Le Vey," whispered Brisson in Palla's ear. "He's a crack-brained
chemist, and they ought to nab him."
The professor rose from one of the benches on the rostrum and came
forward--a tall, black-bearded man, deathly pale, whose protruding,
bluish eyes seemed almost stupid in their fixity.
"Words are by-products," he said, "and of minor importance. Deeds
educate. T. N. T., also, is a byproduct, and of no use in conversation
unless employed as an argument--" A roar of applause drowned his
voice: he gazed at the audience out of his stupid pop-eyes.
"Tyranny has kicked you into the gutter," he went on. "Capital makes
laws to keep you there and hires police and soldiers to enforce those
laws. This is called civilisation. Is there anything for you to do
except to pick yourselves out of the gutter and destroy what kicked
you into it and what keeps you there?"
"No!" roared the audience.
"Only a clean sweep will do it," said Le Vey. "If you have a single
germ of plague in the world, it will multiply. If you leave a single
trace of what is called civilisation in the world, it will hatch out
more tyrants, more capitalists, more laws. So there is only one
remedy. Destruction. Total annihilation. Nothing less can purify this
rotten hell they call the world!"
Amid storms of applause he unrolled a manuscript and read without
emphasis:
"Therefore, the Workers of the World, in council assembled, hereby
proclaim at midnight to-night, throughout the entire world:
"1. That all debts, public and private, are cancelled.
"2. That all leases, contracts, indentures and similar instruments,
products of capitalism, are null and void.
"3. All statutes, ordinances and other enactments of capitalist
government are repealed.
"4. All public offices are declared vacant.
"5. The military and naval organisations will immediately dissolve
and reorganise themselves upon a democratic basis for speedy
mobilisation.
"6. All working classes and political prisoners will be immediately
freed and all indictments quashed.
"7. All vacant and unused land shall immediately revert to the people
and remain common property until suitable regulations for its
disposition can be made.
"8. All telephones, telegraphs, cables, railroads, steamship lines and
other means of communication and transportation shall be immediately
taken over by the workers and treated henceforth as the property of
the people.
"9. As speedily as possible the workers in the various industries will
proceed to take over these industries and organise them in the spirit
of the new epoch now beginning.
"10. The flag of the new society shall be plain red, marking our unity
and brotherhood with similar republics in Russia, Germany, Austria and
elsewhere----"
"That'll be about all from you, Professor," interrupted the police
captain, strolling down to the platform. "Come on, now. Kiss your
friends good-night!"
A sullen roar rose from the audience; Le Vey lifted one hand:
"I told you how to argue," he said in his emotionless voice. "Anybody
can talk with their mouths." And he turned on his heel and went back
to his seat on the bench.
Sondheim stood up:
"Comrade Bromberg!" he shouted.
A small, shabby man arose from a bench and shambled forward. His hair
grew so low that it left him practically no forehead. Whiskers blotted
out the remainder of his features except two small and very bright
eyes that snapped and sparkled, imbedded in the hairy ensemble.
"Comrades," he growled, "it has come to a moment when the only law
worth obeying is the law of force!----"
"You bet!" remarked the police captain, genially, and, turning his
back, he walked away up the aisle toward the rear of the hall, while
all around him from the audience came a savage muttering.
Bromberg's growling voice grew harsher and deeper as he resumed: "I
tell you that there is only one law left for proletariat and tyrant
alike! It is the law of force!"
As the audience applauded fiercely, a man near them stood up and
shouted for a hearing.
"Comrade Bromberg is right!" he cried, waving his arms excitedly.
"There is only one real law in the world! The fit survive! The unfit
die! The strong take what they desire! The weak perish. That is the
law of life! That is the----"
An amazing interruption checked him--a clear, crystalline peal of
laughter; and the astounded audience saw a tall, fresh, yellow-haired
girl standing up midway down the hall. It was Ilse Westgard, unable to
endure such nonsense, and quite regardless of Brisson's detaining hand
and Shotwell's startled remonstrance.
"What that man says is absurd!" she cried, her fresh young voice still
gay with laughter. "He looks like a Prussian, and if he is he ought to
know where the law of force has landed his nation."
In the ominous silence around her, Ilse turned and gaily surveyed the
audience.
"The law of force is the law of robbers," she said. "That is why this
war has been fought--to educate robbers. And if there remain any
robbers they'll have to be educated. Don't let anybody tell you that
the law of force is the law of life!----"
"Who are you?" interrupted Bromberg hoarsely.
"An ex-soldier of the Death Battalion, comrade," said Ilse cheerfully.
"I used a rifle in behalf of the law of education. Sometimes bayonets
educate, sometimes machine guns. But the sensible way is to have a
meeting, and everybody drink tea and smoke cigarettes and discuss
their troubles without reserve, and then take a vote as to what is
best for everybody concerned."
And she seated herself with a smile just as the inevitable uproar
began.
All around her now men and women were shouting at her; inflamed faces
ringed her; gesticulating fists waved in the air.
"What are you--a spy for Kerensky?" yelled a man in Russian.
"The bourgeoisie has its agents here!" bawled a red-haired Jew. "I
offer a solemn protest----"
"Agent provocateur!" cried many voices. "Pay no attention to her! Go
on with the debate!"
An I. W. W.--a thin, mean-faced American--half arose and pointed an
unwashed finger at Ilse.
"A Government spy," he said distinctly. "Keep your eye on her,
comrades. There seems to be a bunch of them there----"
"Sit down and shut up!" said Shotwell, sharply. "Do you want to start
a riot?"
"You bet I'll start something!" retorted the man, showing his teeth
like a rat. "What the hell did you come here for----"
"Silence!" bawled Bromberg, hoarsely, from the platform. "That woman
is recognised and known. Pay no attention to her, but listen to me. I
tell you that your law is the law of hatred!----"
Palla attempted to rise. Jim tried to restrain her: she pushed his arm
aside, but he managed to retain his grasp on her arm.
"Are you crazy?" he whispered.
"That man lies!" she said excitedly. "Don't you hear him preaching
hatred?"
"Well, it's not your business----"
"It is! That man is lying to these ignorant people! He's telling
them a vile untruth! Let me go, Jim----"
"Better keep cool," whispered Brisson, leaning over. "We're all in
dutch already."
Palla said to him excitedly: "I'm afraid to stand up and speak, but
I'm going to! I'd be a coward to sit here and let that man deceive
these poor people----"
"Listen to Bromberg!" motioned Ilse, her blue eyes frosty and her
cheeks deeply flushed.
The orator had come down into the aisle. Every venomous word he was
uttering now he directed straight at the quartette.
"Russia is showing us the way," he said in his growling voice. "Russia
makes no distinctions but takes them all by the throat and wrings
their necks--aristocrats, bourgeoisie, cadets, officers, land owners,
intellectuals--all the vermin, all the parasites! And that is the law,
I tell you! The unfit perish! The strong inherit the earth!----"
Palla sprang to her feet: "Liar!" she said hotly. "Did not Christ
Himself tell us that the meek shall inherit the earth!"
"Christ?" thundered Bromberg. "Have you come here to insult us with
legends and fairy-tales about a god?"
"Who mentioned God?" retorted Palla in a clear voice. "Unless we
ourselves are gods there is none! But Christ did live! And He was as
much a god as we are. And no more. But He was wiser! And what He told
us is the truth! And I shall not sit silent while any man or woman
teaches robbery and murder. That's what you mean when you say that the
law of the stronger is the only law! If it is, then the poor and
ignorant are where they belong----"
"They won't be when they learn the law of life!" roared Bromberg.
"There is only one law of life!" cried Palla, turning to look around
her at the agitated audience. "The only law in the world worth
obedience is the Law of Love and of Service! No other laws amount to
anything. Under that law every problem you agitate here is already
solved. There is no injustice that cannot be righted under it! There
is no aspiration that cannot be realised!"
She turned on Bromberg, her hazel eyes very bright, her face surging
with colour.
"You came here to pervert the exhortation of Karl Marx, and unite
under the banner of envy and greed every unhappy heart!
"Very well. Others also can unite to combat you. A league of evil is
not the only league that can be formed under this roof. Nor are the
soldiers and police the only or the better weapons to use against you.
What you agitators and mischief makers are really afraid of is that
somebody may really educate your audiences. And that's exactly what
such people as I intend to do!"
A score or more of people had crowded around her while she was
speaking. Shotwell and Brisson, too, had risen and stepped to her
side. And the entire audience was on its feet, craning hundreds of
necks and striving to hear and see.
Somewhere in the crowd a shrill American voice cried: "Throw them guys
out! They got Wall Street cash in their pockets!"
Sondheim levelled a finger at Brisson:
"Look out for that man!" he said. "He published those lies about
Lenine and Trotsky, and he's here from Washington to lie about us in
the newspapers!"
The I. W. W. lurched out of his seat and shoved against Shotwell.
"Get the hell out o' here," he snarled; "--go on! Beat it! And take
your lady-friends, too."
Brisson said: "No use talking to them. You'd better take the ladies
out while the going is good."
But as they moved there was an angry murmur: the I. W. W. gave Palla a
violent shove that sent her reeling, and Shotwell knocked him
unconscious across a bench.
Instantly the hall was in an uproar: there was a savage rush for
Brisson, but he stopped it with levelled automatic.
"Get the ladies out!" he said coolly to Shotwell, forcing a path
forward at his pistol's point.
Plain clothes men were active, too, pushing the excited Bolsheviki
this way and that and clearing a lane for Palla and Ilse.
Then, as they reached the rear of the hall, there came a wild howl
from the audience, and Shotwell, looking back, saw Sondheim unfurl a
big red flag.
Instantly the police started for the rostrum. The din became deafening
as he threw one arm around Palla and forced her out into the street,
where Ilse and Brisson immediately joined them.
Then, as they looked around for a taxi, a little shrimp of a man came
out on the steps of the hall and spat on the sidewalk and cursed them
in Russian.
And, as Palla, recognising him, turned around, he shook his fists at
her and at Ilse, promising that they should be attended to when the
proper moment arrived.
Then he spat again, laughed a rather ghastly and distorted laugh, and
backed into the doorway behind him.
They walked east--there being no taxi in sight. Ilse and Brisson led;
Palla followed beside Jim.
"Well," said the latter, his voice not yet under complete control,
"don't you think you'd better keep away from such places in the
future?"
She was still very much excited: "It's abominable," she exclaimed,
"that this country should permit such lies to be spread among the
people and do nothing to counteract this campaign of falsehood! What
is going to happen, Jim, unless educated people combine to educate the
ignorant?"
"How?" he asked contemptuously.
"By example, first of all. By the purity and general decency of their
own lives. I tell you, Jim, that the unscrupulous greed of the
educated is as dangerous and vile as the murderous envy of the
Bolsheviki. We've got to reform ourselves before we can educate
others. And unless we begin by conforming to the Law of Love and
Service, some day the Law of Hate and Violence will cut our throats
for us."
"Palla," he said, "I never dreamed that you'd do such a thing as you
did to-night."
"I was afraid," she said with a nervous tightening of her arm under
his, "but I was still more afraid of being a coward."
"You didn't have to answer that crazy anarchist!"
"Somebody had to. He lied to those poor creatures. I--I couldn't stand
it!--" Her voice broke a little. "And if there is truly a god in me,
as I believe, then I should show Christ's courage ... lacking His
wisdom," she added so low that he scarcely heard her.
Ilse, walking ahead with Brisson, looked back over her shoulder at
Palla laughing.
"Didn't I tell you that there are some creatures you can't educate?
What do you think of your object lesson, darling?"
CHAPTER XII
On a foggy afternoon, toward midwinter, John Estridge strolled into
the new Overseas Club, which, still being in process of incubation,
occupied temporary quarters on Madison Avenue.
Officers fresh from abroad and still in uniform predominated; tunics
were gay with service and wound chevrons, citation cords, stars,
crosses, strips of striped ribbon.
There was every sort of head-gear to be seen there, too, from the
jaunty overseas bonnet de police, piped in various colours, to the
corded campaign hat and leather-visored barrack-cap.
Few cavalry officers were in evidence, but there were plenty of spurs
glittering everywhere--to keep their owners' heels from slipping off
the desks, as the pleasantry of the moment had it.
                  *       *       *       *       *
Estridge went directly to a telephone booth, and presently got his
connection.
"It's John Estridge, as usual," he said in a bantering tone. "How are
you, Ilse?"
"John! I'm so glad you called me! Thank you so much for the roses!
They're exquisite!--matchless!----"
"Not at all!"
"What?"
"If you think they're matchless, just hold one up beside your cheek
and take a slant at your mirror."
"I thought you were not going to say such things to me!"
"I thought I wasn't."
"Are you alone?" She laughed happily. "Where are you, Jack?"
"At the Overseas Club. I stopped on my way from the hospital."
"Y--es."
A considerable pause, and then Ilse laughed again----a confused, happy
laugh.
"Did you think you'd--come over?" she inquired.
"Shall I?"
"What do you think about it, Jack?"
"I suppose," he said in a humourous voice, "you're afraid of that
tendency which you say I'm beginning to exhibit."
"The tendency to drift?"
"Yes;--toward those perilous rocks you warned me of."
"They are perilous!" she insisted.
"You ought to know," he rejoined; "you're sitting on top of 'em like a
bally Lorelei!"
"If that's your opinion, hadn't you better steer for the open sea,
John?"
"Certainly I'd better. But you look so sweet up there, with your
classical golden hair, that I think I'll risk the rocks."
"Please don't! There's a deadly whirlpool under them. I'm looking down
at it now."
"What do you see at the bottom, Ilse? Human bones?"
"I can't see the bottom. It's all surface, like a shining mirror."
"I'll come over and take a look at it with you."
"I think you'll only see our own faces reflected.... I think you'd
better not come."
"I'll be there in about half an hour," he said gaily.
                  *       *       *       *       *
He sauntered out and on into the body of the club, exchanging with
friends a few words here, a smiling handclasp there; and presently he
seated himself near a window.
For a while he rested his chin on his clenched hand, staring into
space, until a waiter arrived with his order.
He signed the check, drained his glass, and leaned forward again with
both elbows on his knees, twirling his silver-headed stick between
nervous hands.
"After all," he said under his breath, "it's too late, now.... I'm
going to see this thing through."
                  *       *       *       *       *
As he rose to go he caught sight of Jim Shotwell, seated alone by
another window and attempting to read an evening paper by the foggy
light from outside. He walked over to him, fastening his overcoat on
the way. Jim laid aside his paper and gave him a dull glance.
"How are things with you?" inquired Estridge, carelessly.
"All right. Are you walking up town?"
"No."
Jim's sombre eyes rested on the discarded paper, but he did not pick
it up. "It's rotten weather," he said listlessly.
"Have you seen Palla lately?" inquired Estridge, looking down at him
with a certain curiosity.
"No, not lately."
"She's a very busy girl, I hear."
"So I hear."
Estridge seated himself on the arm of a leather chair and began to
pull on his gloves. He said:
"I understand Palla is doing Red Cross and canteen work, besides
organising her celebrated club;--what is it she calls it?--Combat Club
No. 1?"
"I believe so."
"And you haven't seen her lately?"
Shotwell glanced at the fog and shrugged his shoulders: "She's rather
busy--as you say. No, I haven't seen her. Besides, I'm rather out of
my element among the people one runs into at her house. So I simply
don't go any more."
"Palla's parties are always amusing," ventured Estridge.
"Very," said the other, "but her guests keep you guessing."
Estridge smiled: "Because they don't conform to the established scheme
of things?"
"Perhaps. The scheme of things, as it is, suits me."
"But it's interesting to hear other people's views."
"I'm fed up on queer views--and on queer people," said Jim, with
sudden and irritable emphasis. "Why, hang it all, Jack, when a fellow
goes out among apparently well bred, decent people he takes it for
granted that ordinary, matter of course social conventions prevail.
But nobody can guess what notions are seething in the bean of any girl
you talk to at Palla's house!"
Estridge laughed: "What do you care, Jim?"
"Well, I wouldn't care if they all didn't seem so exactly like one's
own sort. Why, to look at them, talk to them, you'd never suppose them
queer! The young girl you take in to dinner usually looks as though
butter wouldn't melt in her mouth. And the chances are that she's all
for socialism, self-determination, trial marriages and free love!
"Hell's bells! I'm no prude. I like to overstep conventions, too. But
this wholesale wrecking of the social structure would be ruinous for a
girl like Palla."
"But Palla doesn't believe in free love."
"She hears it talked about by cracked illuminati."
"Rain on a duck's back, Jim!"
"Rain drowns young ducks."
"You mean all this spouting will end in a deluge?"
"I do. And then look for dead ducks."
"You're not very respectful toward modernism," remarked Estridge,
smiling.
Then Jim broke loose:
"Modernism? You yourself said that all these crazy social notions--crazy
notions in art, literature, music--arise from some sort of physical
degeneration, or from the perversion or checking of normal physical
functions."
"Usually they do----"
"Well," continued Shotwell, "it's mostly due to perversion, in my
opinion. Women have had too much of a hell of a run for their money
during this war. They've broken down all the fences and they're loose
and running all over the world.
"If they'd only kept their fool heads! But no. Every germ in the wind
lodged in their silly brains! Biff. They want sex equality and a pair
of riding breeches! Bang! They kick over the cradle and wreck the
pantry.
"Wifehood? Played out! Motherhood? In the discards! Domestic
partnership?--each sex to its own sphere? Ha-ha! That was all very
well yesterday. But woman as a human incubator and brooder is an
obsolete machine. Why the devil should free and untramelled womanhood
hatch out young?
"If they choose to, casually, all right. But it's purely a matter for
self-determination. If a girl cares to take off her Sam Brown belt and
her puttees long enough to nurse a baby, it's a matter that concerns
her, not humanity at large. Because the social revolution has settled
all such details as personal independence and the same standard for
both sexes. So, a bas Madame Grundy! A la lanterne with the old
régime! No--hang it all, I'm through!"
"Don't you like Palla any more?" inquired Estridge, still laughing.
Jim gave him a singular look: "Yes.... Do you like Ilse Westgard?"
Estridge said coolly: "I am accepting her as she is. I like her that
much."
"Oh. Is that very much?" sneered the other.
"Enough to marry her if she'd have me," replied Estridge pleasantly.
"And she won't do that, I suppose?"
"Not so far."
Jim eyed him sullenly: "Well, I don't accept Palla as she is--or
thinks she is."
"She's sincere."
"I understand that. But no girl can get away with such notions. Where
is it all going to land her? What will she be?"
Estridge quoted: "'It hath not yet appeared what we shall be.'"
Shotwell rose impatiently, and picked up his overcoat: "All I know is
that when two healthy people care for each other it's their
business--their business, I repeat--to get together legally and do
the decent thing by the human race."
"Breed?"
"Certainly! Breed legally the finest, healthiest, best of specimens;--and
as many as they can feed and clothe! For if they don't--if we don't--I
mean our own sort--the land will be crawling with the robust get of
all these millions of foreigners, who already have nearly submerged us in
America; and whose spawn will, one day, smother us to death.
"Hang it all, aren't they breeding like vermin now? All yellow dogs
do--all the unfit produce big litters. That's the only thing they ever
do--accumulate progeny.
"And what are we doing?--our sort, I mean? I'll tell you! Our sisters
are having such a good time that they won't marry, if they can avoid
it, until they're too mature to get the best results in children. Our
wives, if they condescend to have any offspring at all, limit the
output to one. Because more than one might damage their beauty.
Hell! If the educated classes are going to practise race suicide and
the Bolsheviki are going to breed like lice, you can figure out the
answer for yourself."
They walked to the foggy street together. Shotwell said bitterly:
"I do care for Palla. I like Ilse. All the women one encounters at
Palla's parties are gay, accomplished, clever, piquant. The men also
are more or less amusing. The conversation is never dull. Everybody
seems to be well bred, sincere, friendly and agreeable. But there's
something lacking. One feels it even before one is enlightened
concerning the ultra-modernism of these admittedly interesting people.
And I'll tell you what it is. Actually, deep in their souls, they
don't believe in themselves.
"Take Palla. She says there is no God--no divinity except in herself.
And I tell you she may think she believes it, but she doesn't.
"And her school-girl creed--Love and Service! Fine. Only there's a
prior law--self-preservation; and another--race preservation! By God,
how are you going to love and serve if girls stop having babies?
"And as for this silly condemnation of the marriage ceremony, merely
because some sanctified Uncle Foozle once inserted the word 'obey' in
it--just because, under the marriage laws, tyranny and cruelty have
