Cassy, taking the money in one hand, extended the other. "May I say
something?"
"Why, of course."
Cassy could talk and very fluently. But at the moment she choked. What
is worse, she flushed. Conscious of which and annoyed at it, she
withdrew her hand and said: "It's so hot here!"
Lennox looked about, then at her. "Is it? Was that what you wanted to
say?"
Cassy shook herself. "No, and it was very rude of me. I wanted to thank
you. Good-bye, Mr. Policeman."
"Good-bye," he threw after the girl, who, in leaving the room, must have
taken the sunlight with her. As she passed over the rug, the puddle
passed too. It followed her out like a dog.
That phenomenon, to which Lennox then attached no significance, he
afterward recalled. For the moment he busied himself with pen and ink.
Presently he touched a button.
From regions beyond the little old man appeared.
Lennox motioned at the bundle. "Take that to this address. Ask for Mr.
Cara and say it comes from the police. From the police, don't forget,
Harris."
"I'll not forget, sir."
"And go now. When the ladies come, I'll open the door."
As it happened, only shadows came. The shadows lengthened. They lapped
the floor, devoured the silver, turned the rug into a pit, the room into
darkness. Apart from shadows, no one came, no one rang. But, though
Lennox was unaware of it, two people did come, and of the two one would
have rung, had not the other prevented.
Lennox did not know that. On the inaccessible planes where events are
marshalled, it was perhaps prearranged that he should not.
VII
Margaret, on her way to Lennox that afternoon, wondered whether it might
not be possible for them to live elsewhere.
Born and bred in the sordid hell with a blue sky that New York was
before the war, latterly the sky itself had darkened. The world in which
she moved, distressed her. Its parure of gaiety shocked. Those who
peopled it were not sordid, they were not even blue. Europe agonised and
they dined and danced, displayed themselves at the opera, summarised the
war as dreadful, dismissed it, gossiped and laughed. It was that
attitude which distressed this girl who, had she been capable of wishing
ill to any one, might have wished them treated as were the élegantes of
Brussels.
Margaret had no such evil wish. But she did hope that when married, she
might reside elsewhere.
"There goes that Mrs. Tomlinson," said her mother. "Last night at the
Bazaar--what do you suppose? She asked me to dinner. She actually did!
The woman must be mad."
Margaret made no reply. Park Avenue was very bright. To her also for the
moment the scientific savagery of the Huns was remote. The brightness of
the April day was about her.
"I am in rags," continued Mrs. Austen, who was admirably dressed. "On
Monday I must really look in on Marguerite. She is an utter liar, but
then you feel so safe with her. Where is it that your young man lives?
Somebody said that lies whiten the teeth. It must be there, isn't it? Or
is it here? These places all look alike, none of them seems to have any
numbers and that makes it so convenient."
They had reached a chalk cliff, on the face of which were windows,
balconies and, at the base, two low steps. On the upper step, in large
black letters, was the cliff's name.
Through glasses, which she did not need, Mrs. Austen surveyed it. "The
Sandringham! Why not The Throne?"
Margaret went on and up. Mrs. Austen followed. At once they were in a
large, marble-flagged hall. Beyond, from a lift, a boy in green and
gilt, peered greedily. At the left was a door with a brass plate that
said: "Dr. Winship." Opposite was another door with another plate on
which was "Lennox."
That, also, Mrs. Austen surveyed. "I did not know your young man was an
earl, but perhaps he is merely a duke. Shall we send that boy or do we
ring? In bachelor quarters one hardly knows what to do--or what goes on
in them either," she immediately and suggestively added.
The door at the right had opened. Cassy was coming out. The flush was
still on her face and in her hand was the money. Mechanically she
thumbed it. She had looked down at the roll of bills and through them at
the butcher, the baker, the candlestickmaker. She looked up and saw
Margaret whose photograph she had seen a moment before. Instantly she
recognised her. Instantly she realised that it was for her the violets
and the sack of bonbons were waiting. As quickly she understood why the
teapot had shouted: "Be off!"
From Margaret she glanced at Mrs. Austen, who was well worth it. In and
about her eyes and mouth there was an expression of such lofty
aloofness, an air of such aristocratic disdain, that though she stood
without motion, movement, or gesture; though, too, there was no draught,
the skirt of her admirable frock seemed to lift and avert itself. It was
the triumph of civilised life. Yet that triumph she contrived to
heighten. Raising the glasses which she did not need, she levelled them
at Cassy.
Cassy, who had but glanced at her, arrested the glance and, for a
second, held it on her, but with an unconcern so obliterating that it
had the effect of blotting-paper. Mrs. Austen felt herself disappearing.
It was as though Cassy had looked at her and had seen nothing whatever.
And that to Mrs. Austen! The lady squirmed but she rallied, the more
readily perhaps since now Cassy had gone, and she said and pleasantly
enough: "What a charming vestal! Such an engaging manner! Seemed, too,
so at home! Let me see? It was she, was it not, who was singing last
night? Rather a coincidence, don't you think?"
Margaret made no reply. The incident, though long in the telling, had
barely outlasted a moment, and crossing the hall, she was approaching
Lennox' door.
Without haste, Mrs. Austen circumvented her. "Not to-day, my dear. As it
is, it is fortunate we came on foot. Otherwise, it would have been
awkward and that is always so distressing. Another day."
Quietly, easily she had got herself in front of Margaret who, without
shoving, could not reach the bell.
With candid eyes she looked at her mother. "You seem to be
suggesting----"
"Perish the thought!" Mrs. Austen sweetly and quickly cut in. "I would
not even suggest that one and two make three, for perhaps they don't.
No, my dear, I suggest nothing. I merely insist. To-day we must postpone
our little visit and to-night, when he comes, you can have it out with
him. A lover's quarrel! What more could you wish? But here now is the
lift-boy. We must dissemble. It's quite like a play.
"No," she interrupted herself to remark at the approaching, greedy and
enquiring youth, "I want nothing whatever except not to be engaged in
conversation."
"Whachyer mean?" asked the boy, who, however, promptly blighted by her
level stare, omitted to pursue it.
She turned again to Margaret. "We will find a taxi at the corner. These
first spring days are so enervating."
Margaret faced her. "I am going in."
The sight of Cassy issuing from Lennox' rooms had surprised her, as the
unexpected will surprise. But in saying that she was going in, it was
not at all for explanations. Explanations are for strangers. Love
understands--or should understand, and Margaret divined that Cassy had
come on some errand from her father, of whose waylaying and rescue
Lennox had long since told her.
"Will you please move a little?" she added.
Mrs. Austen, after routing the boy, had lowered her glasses. She raised
them again. "Look there!"
At the entrance were two women with a child between them. On the stair
was a man. The door marked "Dr. Winship" had opened. The wide hall was
suddenly full of people.
Mrs. Austen lowered her lorgnette. "Don't make a scene, my dear. At
least, don't make one over my dead body."
Resistance was easy, but to what end? Margaret felt that she could
persist, insist, ring and go in, but now only to be accompanied by her
mother's mocking and stilted sneers. The consciousness of that
subtracted the brightness from the day, the pleasure from the visit.
Then, too, that evening he would come. Then they would be alone.
She turned. A moment more and both were in the street, where Mrs. Austen
forgot about the taxi. Other matters occupied the good woman and
occupied her very agreeably. She had been playing a game, and a rare
game it is, with destiny. The stakes were extravagant, but her cards
were poor. Then abruptly, in one of the prodigious shuffles that fate
contrives, a hand, issuing from nowhere, had dealt her a flush. She
purred at it, at the avenue, at the world, at her daughter.
"I am so glad we are not going anywhere to-night." A car flew by, a
gloved hand waved and the purr continued. "Wasn't that Sarah Amsterdam?
By the way, what did the medium tell you? Anything about a dark man
crossing your path? If not, it was very careless of her. But what was I
talking about? Oh, yes, I am so glad we are to be at home. You can have
a nice, quiet evening with your young man. Only, do you know, I wouldn't
say anything about that little vestal. He might not like it. Men are so
queer. They hate to be misunderstood and to be understood makes them
furious. No, I wouldn't mention it. But now isn't he as full of
surprises as a grab-bag? I thought him a model of the most perfect
propriety, and that only shows how wrong it is to judge by appearances.
Model young men always remind me of floor-walkers. Who was that that
just bowed? Dear me, so it was, and he looked so down in the mouth he
might have been a dentist. On Monday I really must go to my dentist. He
does hurt terribly and that is so reassuring. You feel that you are
getting your money's worth. Don't your teeth need attending to? Ah, here
we are at last! God bless our home!"
Entering the hall, she looked at a little room to the right in which the
manager awed prospecting tenants. Usually it was empty. It was empty
then. Mrs. Austen looked, passed on and, preceding Margaret, entered a
lift that floated them to the home on which she had asked a blessing.
VIII
The Italians have a proverb about waiting for some one who does not
come. They call it deadly. Among the lapping shadows Lennox felt the
force of it. But concluding that visitors had detained his guests, he
dressed and went around a corner or two to the Athenæum Club where
usually he dined.
In the main room which gives on Fifth Avenue, he found Ten Eyck Jones
talking war. Jones was a novelist, but he did not look like one. There
was nothing commercial in his appearance, which was that of a man
half-asleep, except when he talked and then he seemed very much awake.
He was not fat and though an inkbeast, he dressed after the manner of
those who put themselves in the best hands and then forget all about it.
But for Lennox he had a superior quality, he was a friend. With him was
Harry Cantillon, who, the night before, had danced away with Kate
Schermerhorn. Straddling an arm of Cantillon's chair was Fred Ogston, a
young man of a type that, even before the war, was vanishing and which
was known as about town. Adjacently sat Peter Verelst. Servants brought
little decanters and removed others. In a corner an old man glared with
envious venom at the liquors of which he had consumed too many and of
which, at the price of his eyesight, he could consume no more.
Jones waved at Lennox. "I have been telling these chaps that before they
are much older they will be in khaki."
"Houp!" cried Cantillon. He sprang up, ran to the arched entrance,
where, lightly, without effort, he turned a somersault and was gone.
The old man in the corner raised himself, shuffled to a table, sat down
and wrote to the house committee. Such conduct could not be tolerated!
Having said it, he raised himself again and shuffled over with the
letter to Dunwoodie, a lawyer with the battered face of a bulldog and a
ruffian's rumpled clothes.
Dunwoodie, instead of taking the letter, gave the old man a look, one
look, his famous look, the look with which--it was said--he reversed the
Bench. Angrily the old man turned tail, collided with Paliser,
apologised furiously, damning him beneath his breath, damning Dunwoodie,
damning the house committee, damning the club.
"Are you to dine here?" Jones asked Ogston, who swore gently, declaring
that, worse luck, he was due at his aunt's.
"But you are," Jones told Lennox. "Come on and I'll make your hair stand
on end." He turned: "And yours, too."
Peter Verelst smoothed the back of his head. "Thank you, Ten Eyck. But
such hair as I have I prefer should remain as it is."
The two men went on and up into another room, spacious, high-ceiled, set
with tables, where a captain got them seated, took their orders,
carefully transmitted them to a careful waiter, an omnibus meanwhile
producing ice-water which Jones had promptly removed.
He smiled at Lennox. "Who was the jeunesse you and Paliser were talking
to last night? She had been singing."
Lennox unfolded a napkin. "I thought you were to make my hair stand on
end."
"Well," said the novelist, who spoke better than he knew, "she may make
Paliser's. There's a young man with plenty of perspective. I saw him in
London just before the deluge. He was then en route for the Marquesas. I
envied him that. I envied him the vanilla-scented nights; the skies, a
solid crust of stars, and also, and particularly, the tattooed ghosts.
But I am forgetting your hair. Were you ever in Berlin?"
Lennox scowled. "Yes. Once."
"And once is too often. The last time I was there, I looked down the
Wilhelmstrasse and it got up and threatened me. Barring the
possibilities of future avatars, I shall not promenade there again. But
I would give a red pippin, I would give two of them, to have been in
Potsdam on that night, that cloudless night, the night in July, when in
a room, gorgeous as only vulgarity could made it, there was sounded the
crack of doom."
Jones gestured and a waiter hurried to him. He motioned him away.
"You can picture it, Lennox, or, if not, who am I to refuse my aid? At
the doors were lackeys; at the gates were guards. Without and beyond, to
the four points of the compass, an unsuspecting world slept, toiled,
feasted, fasted, occupied with its soap-bubble hates and loves. But, in
that room, saurians, with titles as long as your arm, were contriving a
cataclysm that was to exceed the deluge. Since then, and though it be
but through the headlines, you and I stand witness to events that no
mortal ever saw before. That night, in that room they were concocted. By
comparison, what are the mythical exploits of Homer's warriors, the
fabulous achievements of Charlemagne's paladins, the fading memories of
Napoleon's campaigns? What are they all by comparison to a world in
flames? Hugo, with his usual sobriety, said that Napoleon inconvenienced
God. Napoleon wanted Europe. These gunmen want the earth. They won't get
it. Hell is their portion. But, while they were planning the
crib-cracking, I would give a red pippin to have been in their joint
that night. A little more trout?"
Jones turned to the waiter. "Take it away and fetch the roast."
He was about to give other orders, yet these Lennox interrupted.
"But look here. You spoke of an unsuspecting world. The Kaiser had been
rattling the sabre for years. Everybody knew that."
"So he had," said Jones, who contradicted no one. "But England did not
take him seriously, nor did this country either. Consequently, when the
war began it was regarded as but another robber-raid which shortly would
be over. That was an idea that everybody shared, even to the Kaiser, who
afterward said that he had not wanted this war. Incredible as it may
seem he spoke the truth. He did not want a war in which he would be
tripped on the Marne, blocked on the Yser and foiled at Verdun. He
wanted a war in which France would be felled, Russia rolled back, a war
in which, over Serbia's ravaged corpse, his legions could pour down
across the Turkish carpet into the realm where Sardanapalus throned,
beyond to that of Haroun-al-Raschid, on from thence to Ormus and the
Ind, and, with the resulting thralls and treasure, overwhelm England,
gut the United States, destroy civilisation and, on the ruins, set
Deutschland über Alles!"
"Hear! Hear!" said Lennox from between bites.
Jones, after a momentary interlude with a fork, got back at it. "That is
what he wanted! But to get it, he lacked one thing, one thing only. He
had everything else, he had everything that forethought, ingenuity and
science could provide. The arsenals were stocked. The granaries were
packed, the war-chests replete. Grey-green uniforms were piled endlessly
in heaps. Kiel--previously stolen from Denmark, but then reconstructed
and raised to the war degree--at last was open. The navy was ready. The
army was ready. Against any possible combination of European forces, the
oiled machine was prepared. In addition, clairvoyance had supplied the
pretext and stupidity the chance. Petersburg was then in the throes of a
general strike--which the Wilhelmstrasse had engineered. In Paris, the
slipshod condition of the army had been publicly denounced. England and
Ireland were nearly at each other's throats. Yet, had they been in each
other's arms, the Kaiser was convinced that England would not interfere.
Moreover in France, mobilisation required weeks; in Russia, months; and
even then the Russian army, otherwise unequipped, the Tsarina had
supplied with two hundred Teuton generals. That woman used to exclaim at
her resemblance to Marie Antoinette. She flattered herself. It is
Bazaine whom she resembled. But where was I? Oh, yes. The opportunity
was so obvious and everything so neatly prepared that, for good measure,
the pretext was added. An archduke, sinister when living and still more
sinister dead, was, by the Kaiser's orders, bombed to bits and the
bombing fastened on Serbia. Allied stupidity provided the opportunity,
imperial forethought supplied the rest. Since highwayry began, never was
there such a chance. On the last gaiter was the last button. The Kaiser
lacked but one thing."
Lennox shoved at his plate. "So you have said."
Jones, abandoning his fork, repeated it. "One thing! In Potsdam, on that
cloudless July night, when the world, on which he proposed to batten,
slept, toiled, feasted, fasted, occupied with its futile loves and
hates, that thing must have occurred to him."
"Yes, but confound it, what was it?"
Jones lit a cigar. "Bernstorff said, or is said to have said--I do not
count him among my acquaintances--that on that night this supercanaille
showed symptoms of what I think I have seen described as vacillation.
That is quite on the cards. It bears out my theory. In any event the
fellow had his ambitions. He wanted to descend into the red halls of
history disguised. He might have succeeded. History is very careless and
to-day barely recalls that at five o'clock on the morning succeeding his
marriage to a dowdy fat girl, he treated his regiment to a drill. The
fact is uninteresting and would be equally unimportant were it not for
the note that it struck. Subsequently, when he leaped on the throne, he
shouted that those who opposed him he would smash. "There is no other
law than mine"; he later announced--a fine phrase and yet but a modern
variant of Domitian's: "Your god and master orders it." Incidentally, in
addition to the Garter, an honorific which the Duke of Cambridge
admirably summarised as "having, sir, none of the damned nonsense of
merit about it," he had other distinctions. He had--and has--uranomania,
that is to say, a flight of fancy in which the patient believes himself
associated with God. He had also defilirium tremens, which manifested
itself in those man[oe]uvres that are war's image and in which the
troops defile. Yet, when it came to the real thing, it may be that this
paradomaniac lacked the stomach. Apart from the Kruger incident, and one
or two other indecencies, his observance of international etiquette was
relatively correct. The lackeys of history might therefore have
deodorised him. With a sow's ear a lot may be done. Have a cigar?"
Lennox laughed. "I would prefer the point."
"Now, how greedy you are. Well then, here it is. On that fatidic night
in July, this fellow was fifty-five."
"What of it?"
"Everything. At his age Alexander had been dead twenty years."
As Jones spoke he raised his hands. "Spirit of the Great Sinner, forgive
me! This scrofulous dwarf has no kinship with thee!"
"No," Jones, dropping his hands, resumed. "None. His kin are Herod,
Caracalla, Attila, Genghis Khan, and Cloacus, Lord of Sewers. Those are
his kin. To the shade of the Lampsacene, whom the world had forgotten;
to that of Cloacus, whom civilisation had ignored, subsequently he
devoted the army. For the troops he invoked them. But that night the
ghosts of the others gave him pause. At his age, Caracalla, Attila,
Genghis, were dead. They had died hideous, monstrous--but young. Herod
alone may have seemed a promising saint to swear by, though, in the
obscurities of Syrian chronology, even of him he could not be sure. The
one kindred hyena who, at fifty-five, had defied the world was Tsi An,
the Chinese Empress, and he had helped to squelch her. Do you see it
now? To burglarise the world, this thug had every advantage. The police
were asleep. The coast was clear. The jimmies and the dynamite sticks
were ready. Even the dark lantern was packed. The kit was complete. He
had everything. He lacked nothing, except the one essential--Youth! The
eyes of youth are clear. His were too dimmed to foresee that the
allies----"
Lennox was rising.
Amiably Jones switched on and off again. "Hold on a minute. You have not
given me the "Who's Who" of that young woman."
In Lennox' brain, instantly cells latent, alert, and of which he was
entirely unconscious, functioned actively. Before him Cassy stood.
Beside her was another. This other, very lovely, was a saint. Yet,
prompted still by the cells and equally unaware of it, it occurred to
him that a lovely saint may resemble a vase that is exquisite, but
unresilient and perhaps even empty. Whereas a siren, like Cassy----
Abruptly he caught himself up. The unawaited disloyalty into which he
had floundered, surprised and annoyed him. He could not account for the
delicate infidelity and perplexedly he looked at Jones who still was at
it.
"The diva I mean. The diva in duodecimo who sang at the Bazaar."
Lennox shook himself and sat down again. Modestly then the thrice-told
tale was repeated--Angelo Cara, a violin in one hand, a sword-cane in
the other, trudging home. The attack, the rout, the rescue, the
acquaintance with Cassy that ensued.
Jones, absorbing the story, pigeonholed his memory with the details
which, sometime, for copy purposes, might be of use.
"They are Portuguese," Lennox, rising again, concluded.
Jones peered about. The great room was filled with members, eating,
drinking, laughing, talking--talking mainly of nothing whatever. He
motioned. "Isn't that Cantillon over there with--of all
people!--Dunwoodie?"
Lennox looked and nodded. "Cantillon is in Dunwoodie's office. He asked
me to give him my law business." Indifferently, with the air of one
considering the improbable, Lennox added: "Some day I may. Good-night."
But in the night into which he then went, already that day was breaking.
IX
That same evening, as Lennox was leaving the club, Mrs. Austen, rising
from the dinner-table, preceded Margaret into the drawing-room and
looked at the clock, a prostrate nymph, balancing a dial on the soles of
her feet. At the figures on the dial, the nymph pointed a finger.
From the clock Mrs. Austen turned and exclaimed at the windows which she
had already examined. "The jardinières have not yet been attended to! It
is inconceivable!"
Margaret, who had seated herself, said: "You might send for the
manager."
"He would only keep me waiting and then expect me to tell him what I
wanted. He ought to know. Besides, I might have forgotten. It is very
tiresome."
Margaret stood up. "I will tell him."
With a click, Mrs. Austen unfurled a fan and, with another click,
refurled it. "No. I will see him myself. I am quite in the humour."
Margaret looked after her mother, who was leaving the room. The sudden
tempest in a flowerpot surprised her. But the outer door closed.
Margaret reseated herself. Presently he would come and together they
would make those plans that lovers make--and then unmake, unless,
elsewhere, they have been made for them.
Meanwhile she waited. The incident at the Sandringham, the sight of
Cassy, her mother's facile insinuations, these things had distressed
her, because, and only because, they had prevented her from enjoying the
innocent pleasure of the innocent visit to the rooms of her betrothed,
whom she loved with a love that was too pure and too profound, to
harbour doubt and suspicion and that evil child of theirs which jealousy
is. Her faith was perfect. That faith showed in her face and heightened
her beauty with a candour that should have disarmed her mother, who, in
the hall below, was, at that moment, instructing a man and not about
flower-boxes either.
"Mr. Lennox, you may know him, by sight I mean, will be coming here
shortly. Please have him shown into that room there."
Mrs. Austen passed on. The little room at which she had glanced that
afternoon received her--a hospitality in which a mirror joined. The
latter welcomed her with a glimpse of herself. It was like meeting an
old friend. But no; a friend certainly, yet not an old one. Age had not
touched this lady, not impudently at least, though where it may have had
the impertinence to lay a finger, art had applied another, a moving
finger that had written a parody of youth on her face which was then
turning to some one behind her whom the mirror disclosed.
In turning, she smiled.
"It is so good of you, Mr. Lennox, to look in on me. The door-man told
you about Margaret, did he not? No? How careless of him. The dear child
has a headache and has gone to bed."
"Has she?" said Lennox. He found but that. But at least he understood
why Margaret had not come to his rooms. The headache had prevented her.
"It is nothing." Mrs. Austen was telling him. "To-morrow she will be
herself again. Nice weather we are having."
"Very," Lennox answered.
As he would have said the same thing if Mrs. Austen had declared that
the weather was beastly, the reply did not matter. It did not matter to
her; it did not matter to him. She was thinking of something else and he
was also. He was thinking of Margaret, wondering whether he might not go
to her. Were it not for the strait-jacket that conventionality is and
which pinions the sturdiest, he would have gone. He was a little afraid
of Mrs. Austen, as an intelligent man sometimes is afraid of an imbecile
woman. But his fear of her fainted beside the idea that if, disregarding
the bagatelles of the door, he made his way to Margaret, she herself
might not like it. That alone restrained him. Afterward he wished he had
let nothing prevent him. Afterward he regretted it. It is the misery of
life--and sometimes its reward--that regret should be futile.
But, at the moment, grim and virile, a hat in one hand, a stick in the
other, his white tie just showing between the lapels of his overcoat,
already he was consoling himself. He had not seen Margaret in the
afternoon, and he was not to see her this evening. No matter. The morrow
would repay--that morrow which is falser than the former day.
Pleasantly at him and at his thoughts, Mrs. Austen played the flute.
"Won't you sit down?" In speaking, she sank on a sofa which she occupied
amply.
Lennox, shifting his stick, took a chair. Later, in one of those evil
moods that come to the best, as well as to the worst, he wished he had
brained her with it.
With the magic flute, Mrs. Austen continued: "To-morrow is Sunday, is it
not? You must be sure to come. Dear me! I can remember when everybody
went to church on Sunday and then walked up and down Fifth Avenue. Fifth
Avenue had trees then instead of shops and on the trees were such funny
little worms. They used to hang down and crawl on you. The houses, too,
were so nice. They all had piazzas and on the piazzas were honeysuckles.
But I fear I am boasting. I don't really remember all that. It was my
father who told me. Those must have been the good old days!"
Lennox again shifted his stick. "To-day I had hoped that you would look
in on me."
The flute caressed the strain. "Yes. It was too bad! We had quite
counted on it. Bachelor quarters must be so exciting."
"Well, not mine at any rate. They are rather dark."
"But that must make them all the more exciting! Blindman's buff! Hide
and go seek! What fun you must have with your friends romping about!"
"My friends are too busy for that. Though to-day----"
"Yes?"
Lennox hesitated. He knew that this woman took no interest in him
whatever, but he had intended to tell Margaret about Cassy.
Pleasantly Mrs. Austen prodded him. "Yes?"
"Nothing of any moment. This afternoon, Miss Cara, the girl who sang
last night, came to see me. You may remember I told you I knew her
father."
"It seems to me I do."
"Things have not gone well there and I advanced her a trifle for him."
Mrs. Austen unfurled her fan. It was all Honest Injun. She had not a
doubt of it and never had. But if she had thought it a Sioux and
Comanche story, it would have been the same to her.
"I am sorry you did not meet her," Lennox continued. "You might have
lent her a hand."
"Professionally, you mean?"
"Yes."
"I might have her sing here," replied Mrs. Austen, who would have seen
Cassy hanged first.
Lennox considered the picture: Mrs. Austen in the rôle of shepherdess,
herding for Cassy's benefit the flock of sheep that society is. But the
picture did not detain him. He stood up.
"That would be very good of you. Please tell Margaret I am sorry she has
a headache and that I will look in on her to-morrow."
No you won't, thought Mrs. Austen, who said: "Yes, do."
In a moment, when he had gone, she looked again in the mirror. It showed
her a woman who would not steal, unless she could do so undetectably; a
woman who would not forge, because she did not know how. Crimes
ridiculous or merely terrific she was too shrewd to commit. But there
are crimes that the law cannot reach. There are cards, too, that fate
may deal.
After looking at the woman, she looked at the cards. They were
dreamlike. Even so, they needed stacking. Mrs. Austen arranged them
carefully, ran them up her sleeve and floated to the room where Margaret
waited.
As she entered, Margaret turned to her. Her face had that disquieting
loveliness which Spanish art gave to the Madonna, the loveliness of
flesh eclipsed certainly by the loveliness of the soul, but still flesh,
still lovely.
At sight of it Mrs. Austen experienced the admiration tinctured with the
vitriol of jealousy that some mothers inject. Mrs. Austen had been a
belle in the nights when there were belles but her belledom, this girl,
who was not a belle, outshone. Yet the glow of it while necessarily
physical had in it that which was moral. Unfortunately the radiance of
moral beauty only those who are morally beautiful can perceive. Mrs.
Austen was blind to it. It was her daughter's physical beauty that she
always saw and which, though she was jealous of it, had, she knew, a
value, precisely as beauty had a value in Circassia where, before the
war, it fetched as much as a hundred Turkish pounds. In New York, where
amateurs are keener and beauty is more rare, it may run into millions.
Commercially conscious of that, Mrs. Austen felt for the cards and
carelessly produced one.
"Do you know, I believe we are to have a shower. Your young man got off
just in time."
Margaret, who had glanced at the prostrate nymph, looked at her upright
mother. "Do you mean that Keith has come--and gone?"
Mrs. Austen sat down and extracted another card. "My dear, when I went
below he was coming in. We----"
Margaret, with her usual directness, interrupted. "But he is coming
back?"
"That depends on you."
"On me? How? What do you mean?"
"That you must do as you like, of course. But if you elect to see him,
for goodness' sake don't refer to it."
"Refer to it!" Margaret exclaimed. "Refer to what?"
"The vestal whom we saw this afternoon."
"I don't understand."
Indulgently Mrs. Austen motioned. "It is hardly proper that you should."
Margaret winced and coloured. "Your insinuation is horrible."
Cheerfully Mrs. Austen smiled. Margaret's start, her heightened colour,
her visible annoyance, these things comforted her. A grandee of Spain
warmed his hands at the auto-da-fé. There are people just like him.
There are people that take comfort in another's distress. Mrs. Austen
did not know that she resembled them. She had nothing but Margaret's
welfare in view. Nothing but that and her own. Her own though came
first.
She raised the fan. "My dear, you misjudge me. I always said that he is
a good young man and I stick to it. He is good, far too good, too good
to be true." With that, lowering the fan, she produced a trump.
"Downstairs, a moment ago, he told me so."
Margaret gasped. "He told you--he told you----"
"Precisely. That is just what he did tell me."
Margaret straightened. "I don't believe it."
Mrs. Austen waved at her. "Oh, I don't mean that he has deceived you. He
has done nothing of the kind. It is you who have deceived yourself. That
was to be expected. At your age I deceived myself quite as thoroughly. I
thought your father a conquering hero and he was merely a bore. But he
pointed a moral, though he adorned no tale. He married to settle down.
That is this young man's idea and I must give him credit for the fact
that while he has not deceived you, he did deceive me. I thought him a
tedious person; whereas, not a bit of it. He is exceedingly lively. If
he keeps it up, his wife will be blessed among women. But that is just
it. He won't keep it up. He swore he would not and I believe him. He has
turned over a new leaf. I can't cry over it, but it is really too bad."
Margaret, who had straightened, stiffened. "If I believed a word of what
you tell me, I would forgive him entirely."
Mrs. Austen, unprepared for that, leaned forward. "My dear, I had no
idea you were so sensible."
"I would forgive entirely," Margaret continued. "But I would never see
him again."
How good that tasted! Mrs. Austen swallowed it contentedly. "Of course
you will see him. You are not going blind, I suppose. But when you do
see him, it will be only decent of you to ignore the matter which is not
a fit subject for you to discuss."
Margaret, who had straightened and stiffened, now was rigid. "I
certainly shall ignore it. It is not worth talking about."
Mrs. Austen leaned back. "Ah, my dear, how right you are. He could not
tell you that he had loved wisely, it would not be very flattering. He
could not say he had loved too well, for that would be embarrassing.
What a pretty frock you have on. Did Marguerite make it? Of course he
could not. It would not be nice at all. But to me he made a soiled
breast of it. Don't you think the skirt a bit too long? Stand up a
minute."
Margaret coloured again. She coloured with a flush that put two red
spots on her. She did not believe it. She could not and would not. Yet
credence, like the wind, bloweth where it listeth.
Mrs. Austen, noting the spots, knew that the card had been well played
and leisurely selected another.
"Perhaps it is the way you are sitting. Yes, altogether it is quite
ducky. I really must go to Marguerite on Monday. Don't let me forget
about it or the dentist either. I shall have my hands full and my mouth
also. The proper caper, too, apparently. That little dollymop, whom we
saw this afternoon, had her hands full. Did you notice the roll of bills
that she was counting? Such an enjoyable occupation! But it won't last.
You need not worry on that score. He had been paying her off. He assured
me of that and so unnecessarily. Why, I saw the whole thing at a glance.
Anybody but you would have seen it too. But you are so theosophically
nearsighted. It was for that reason I took you away. Now, though, he is
going to begin on a clean slate. Those were his very words, and you, I
suppose, are the clean slate. He has such original expressions, hasn't
he? But there! I forgot. He did not mean me to tell you. In fact, he
begged me not to."
From Margaret's face the flush retreating left it white with that
whiteness which dismay creates. A bucket of mud had drenched her. It did
more, it dazed her. The idea that the bucket was imaginary, the mud
non-existent, that every word she had heard was a lie, did not occur to
this girl who, if a Psyche, was not psychic. In her heart was the mud;
in her mother's hand was the bucket. But the mire itself, he had put
there. The evidence of her own eyes she might have questioned. But he
had admitted it and the fact that he had induced in her the purely
animal feeling to get away, to be alone and to suffer unseen.
She left the room, went to her own, closed the door and at a prie-Dieu
fell on her knees, not to pray--she knew that the Lords of Karma are not
to be propitiated or coerced--but in humiliation.
In humiliation there may be self-pity and that is always degrading. With
uncertain hands she tried to transform that pity into sorrow, not for
herself, but for him. The burnt offering seared her. In the secret
chambers of her being her young soul tripped and fell. For support she
clutched at her creed. Ordinarily it would have sustained her.
Ordinarily it would have told her that her suffering was the penalty for
suffering which she had caused, a penalty that the gods of the doors
that close behind our birth were measuring to her. Ordinarily she would
have realised that in some anterior, enigmatic and forgotten life, she,
too, had debased herself and that this cross was the punishment for that
debasement. Ordinarily the creed would have sustained her. But as she
clutched at it, it receded. Only the cross remained and that was too
heavy.
In the drawing-room an indifferent nymph pointed a finger at hours, all
of which wound and of which the last one kills.
In that room Mrs. Austen was writing a note. Addressed to Montagu
Paliser, Jr., esqre., it asked him to dinner.
X
In the subway, the following evening, Cassy saw a man eyeing her. She
turned and saw another man who also was eyeing her. On the seat opposite
two women were discussing her clothes.
The clothes, her own manufacture, were not of the fashion, not behind
it, or ahead of it, but above it. A mode, or a mood of her own, they
consisted in a blue silk smock and a yellow cloth skirt. On the sleeves
and about the neck of the smock there was also yellow, touches of it,
with which the skirt married. Therewith she was hatless, rebellious and
handsome.
Accustomed to the inquisitiveness of appraising eyes, she ignored the
women as, already, she had ignored the men. With obliterating unconcern,
she reduced them to the fluidity of the inchoate. Other matters occupied
her, and, primarily, a trick, an extremely shabby one, from which she
had not yet recovered.
The day before, after paying the butcher, the baker, and the punctual
and pertinacious agent, she had scaled the walk-up where she found her
father with the violin, on which, an hour earlier, Lennox had loaned her
the money.
The spectacle flabbergasted her. Then, realising what Lennox had done,
his iniquity struck her as hateful. At once, in an effort to account,
however imaginatively, for the apparent sorcery of it all, she tried to
invent a fairy-tale. But the tale would not come. Nor was it needed. Her
father dispensed with any. Impatient of detail, as the artist usually
is, he required none. The extraordinary perspicacity of the police who
had nailed and returned the violin instanter, this wizardry that would
have thrown any one else into stupors of bewilderment, interested him
not at all. He had the violin. That sufficed. The rest did not matter.
It mattered though and monumentally to Cassy. To owe the butcher, the
baker, the candlestickmaker, and to have them look slantingly at you,
that was disgusting. But to be beholden for a gift, which you had
refused to accept, and which then, behind your back, was dumped in on
you, that was degrading. Consequently, while conjecturing new versions
of Perrault, versions which it relieved her to find were not wanted, she
gnashed her milk-white teeth at Lennox, felt that she hated him, yet
felt, too, and the feeling was maddening, that the hatred was very
tender.
All this was irritating enough and the Tamburini had contrived to add to
the irritation. It had been arranged that the fallen star was to come to
the walk-up and accompany Cassy to the Splendor. Instead of which, at
the last moment, the ex-diva had telephoned that she would join her at
the hotel, and Cassy foresaw a tedious sitting about in the lobby, for
Ma Tamby was always late. But when have misfortunes come singly? Cassy
foresaw, too, that the tedium would not be attenuated by Paliser's
conversation.
It was not for that, or for him, that she was then in the subway, but
for dinner. Young, healthy and consequently carnal, though not otherwise
carnal than hunger can make you, she liked food, on condition that she
had not prepared it, and--in particular, and why not?--she liked the
savorously truffled menus that walk-ups lack. She had another reason for
being in the subway, one that Ma Tamby had lodged, like a flea, in her
ear.
But now, near the heart of Manhattan, the train had stopped. Cassy got
out, looked at her white gloves, wondered if they smelled of benzine,
decided that they did, took them off and went on to the Splendor where
Paliser was waiting.
Other people appeared to be similarly occupied. In the high, wide hall
were groups of careful men and careless women, the latter very
scrumptious in their imported frocks. The sight of these Parisianisms
abashed Cassy no more than her appearance abashed Paliser. Etiquette,
Formality, the Proper Thing, the great inane gods of the ante-bellum
heavens, he had never acknowledged and now, though locally their altars
remained and their worship persisted, he knew they were forever dead,
blown into the dust-bin of the things that were, tossed there in
derision by that atheist, the War.
The careless women looked at Cassy and carefully looked away. The
careful men looked at her and carelessly looked again. In the severity
of the wide, high hall, the girl with her rebellious beauty and
harlequin gown, struck a note which it lacked, struck two of them, the
go-and-be-hanged-to-you and originality.
In evening clothes that said Savile Row, Paliser approached. "You are
punctual as a comet and equally luminous."
Cassy, ignoring the remark, ignoring, too, the hand that accompanied it,
cut him short. "Haven't seen Madame Tamburini, have you?"
Paliser's hair had the effect of a mirror. He smoothed the back of it.
The ex-diva he had certainly seen and not later than just before she
telephoned to Cassy. But it is injudicious, and also tiresome, to tell
everything. With the wave of a cheque, the complicity of the former
first-lady had been assured, and assured moreover without a qualm on her
part. Ma Tamby did not know what it is to have a qualm--which she could
not have spelled if she had known. She was differently and superiorly
educated. In the university that life is, she had acquired encyclopedias
of recondite learning. She knew that ice is not all that it is cracked
up to be: that a finger in the pie is better than two in the fire, and
that angels have been observed elsewhere than at Mons--learning which,
as you may see, is surprising.
Over the ham and eggs of an earlier evening, the syllables of Paliser's
name had awakened echoes of old Academy nights and Mapleson's "grand
revivals" of the Trovatore, echoes thin and quavering, yet still
repeating hymns in glory of the man's angelic papa. On the way from ham
and eggs to Harlem, she had, in consequence, conjured, for Cassy's
benefit, with performing fleas. But when, on this afternoon, M. P. Jr.,
had come and waved cheques at her, she had felt that her worst hopes
were realised, that her finger was really in the pie, and she had agreed
to everything, which, however, for the moment, was nothing at all,
merely to abandon Cassy that evening; merely also to collaborate later
in the evocation of a myth, and meanwhile to keep at it with the fleas.
Now, in the hall of the Splendor, as Paliser patted the back of his
head, he was enjoying Cassy's open-air appearance that needed only a
tennis-racket to be complete.
Cassy glanced about. She had a penny or two more than her carfare and
yet, if she had owned the shop, she could not have appeared more at ease
in this smartest of smart inns, a part of which, destiny, in its
capriciousness, was to offer her.
"No," he answered. "But I have a private room somewhere. She can find
her way there, unless you prefer palms and an orchestra."
"I do," said Cassy, to whom a room with this man said only boredom and
who liked to see what was going on.
Then when, presently, they were seated at a table, to which the
chastened captain of the ham-and-egg night had piloted the way, Cassy
beheld what she had never beheld before, and what few mortals ever do
behold, a cradled bottle of Clos de Vougeot. But to her, the royal crû
was very much like the private room. It said nothing. A neighbouring
table was more eloquent.
Among the people seated there was an imperial woman with an imperial
manner, whom Cassy instantly recognised. She was prima donna, prima
donna assoluta, and though Cassy did not know it--nor would it have
interested her if she had known--dissoluta also.
To be in her shoes!
In that seven-leagued dream, she forgot Paliser, the delinquent
Tamburini, the trick that Lennox had played. In a golden gloom, on a
wide stage, to a house packed to the roof, Cassy was bowing. Her final
roulade had just floated on and beyond, lost now in cyclonic bravas.
"It was the Duc d'Aumale," Paliser was saying.
"Eh?" Abruptly Cassy awoke.
"Or, if not, some other chap who, recognising it, ordered his regiment
to halt and present arms."
"To whom?"
"To the vineyard where the grape in that bottle was grown."
Cassy shook out a napkin. "You talk just like my janitress. I never
understand a word she says."
But now a waiter was bringing delicacies other than those obtainable in
Harlem; in particular, a dish that had the merit of pleasing Cassy.
"What is it?" she asked.
"Muskrat."
"What!"
"Muskrat with terrapin for a pseudonym. The pseudonym shows imagination.
Let us be thankful for that. Gastronomy is bankrupt. Formerly it was
worshipped. Formerly gastronomy was a goddess. To-day the sole tributes
consist in bills-of-fare that are just like the Sahara minus the oases.
It is the oases we want and it is muskrat we get. That is all wrong. The
degree of culture that any nation may claim is shown in its cookery and
if there is anything viler than what we get here it must be served in
Berlin. It must have been Solon who said: 'Tell me what you eat and I
will tell you who you are.' He added, or should have, that animals feed,
man dines and, when permitted, dines devoutly. There are dishes, as
there are wines, to which one should rise and bow. But hereabouts it is
only by special dispensation that one gets them. In a hotel such as this
there is an outward show of reverence, but it is sheer hypocrisy; of
real piety there is none, a sham attempt to observe the sacred rites
without knowing how. I admit I don't know either. From me the divine
afflatus has been withheld. But elsewhere I have been conscious of the
presence. Once or twice I was blessed. Here, though, in default of
shrines there should be chairs. Harvard, Yale, Columbia, should
establish a few. When I was in college I was taught everything that it
is easiest to forget. If the youth of the land were instructed in
gastronomy we would all be wiser and better. Chairs on gastronomy, that
is what we need!"
Cassy laughed. "Why not tables?"
Paliser laughed with her. The laughter was a bond. It joined them
however tenuously. It was what he had been driving at. Accustomed to
easy successes, Cassy's atmosphere, with its flavour of standoffishness
and indifference, appealed to this man, who had supped on the facile and
who wanted the difficult. Cassy, he could have sworn, would supply it
and, if he had, he would have sworn very truly.
Meanwhile the muskrat had gone. Dishes less false but equally fair had
followed. Now, with the air of a conjurer, the waiter just showed them
an entremets which he hastened to serve. It was a soufflée.
At it, Cassy, just showing the point of her strawberry tongue, exclaimed
without rancour: "Ma Tamby has thrown us over."
Paliser lit a cigarette. "She may be singing in the private room."
Cassy laughed again. "Yes. 'Una voce poco fa!' That would be just the
thing--wouldn't it?--to sing privately in private."
Paliser answered, though what, she did not hear. The orchestra drowned
it and for a moment she considered him, conscious that he was less
objectionable than he had seemed, yet entirely unconscious that such
objection as she had experienced was due to his extreme good-looks,
which in a man are always objectionable to a woman when she herself is
handsome, for they make him resemble her and, in so doing, constitute an
encroachment on her prerogatives, which, in itself, is an affront.
Cassy, ignorant of the psychology of it, equally unaware that
familiarity which may breed contempt can also dissolve dislike, and
feeling merely a lessening of her instinctive hostility, told herself
that he was perhaps not as cocky as he looked and drank of the glass
before her.
The Clos de Vougeot which, to the educated palate, is art, literature
and song combined, meant nothing more to her than if it had been Médoc.
She drank it because it was there at her hand, as she would have drunk
water, without savouring it, without any realisation of the enormity of
the crime. Yet though it meant nothing, nothing at least of which she
was aware, the royal crû was affecting her. It modified and mollified,
admonishing her that this man was an inoffensive insect who,
circumstances favouring, might, as Ma Tamby when inserting the flea had
told her, put her father on his feet.
In just what the favouring circumstances could consist, the fallen star
had not bothered to indicate, and she had not bothered because they were
too obvious and also because she was sure that Cassy was not insane.
Paliser abandoned his cigarette. "If you like, we might look in at the
Metropolitan. I believe I have a box."
Apart from down-stage and the centre of it, apart, too, from the flys
and the dressing-rooms, Cassy's imagination had not as yet conceived
anything more beckoning than a box at the opera, even though, as on this
occasion, the opera happened to be a concert. "Why, yes. Only----"
Pausing, she looked about. The imperial lady had gone.
"Only what?" Paliser very needlessly asked for he knew.
"I fear I am a bit overdressed."
"Not for Sunday. The house will be full and nobody in it. Besides, what
do you care?"
Cassy shrugged. "Personally, not a rap. It was of you I was thinking."
Paliser, who had been signing the check and feeing the waiter, looked at
her. "I did not know that you were so considerate."
Cassy, in surprise not at him, but at herself, laughed. "Nor did I."
Paliser stood up and drew back her chair. "Be careful. You might become
cynical. It is in thinking of others that cynicism begins."
The platitude slipped from him absently. He had no wish for the concert,
no wish to hear Berlinese trulls and bubonic bassi bleat. But, for the
tolerably delicate enterprise that he had in hand, there were the
preliminary steps which could only be hastened slowly and anything
slower than the Metropolitan on a Sunday night, it was beyond him to
conjecture.
But though on that evening a basso did bleat, it may be that he was not
bubonic. Moreover he was followed by a soprano who, whether trullish or
not, at any rate was not Berlinese and whose voice had the lusciousness
of a Hawaiian pineapple. But the selections, which were derived from old
Italian cupboards, displeased Paliser, who called them painted mush.
But not twice! Cassy turned her back on him. The painted mush shook
stars in her ears, opened vistas on the beyond. Save for him she would
have been quite happy. But his remark annoyed her. It caused her to
revise her opinion. Instead of an inoffensive insect he was an offensive
fool. None the less, as the concert progressed, she revised it again. On
entering the box she had seen his name on the door. The memory of that,
filtering through the tinted polenta from the ancient cupboards,
softened her. A man so gifted could express all the imbecilities he
liked. Elle s'enfichait.
As a result, before it was over, in lieu of her back, she gave him the
seduction of her smile, and, later when, in his car, on the way to the
walk-up, he spoke of future dinners, fresher songs, she had so far
forgotten the painted mush insult, that momentarily she foresaw but one
objection. She had nothing to wear and frankly, with entire unconcern,
she out with it.
For that he had a solution which he kept to himself. The promptly
obliterating stare with which she would have reduced him to
non-existence, he dodged in advance.
Apparently changing the subject, he said: "You know--or know of--Mrs.
Beamish, don't you?"
"Never heard of her," said Cassy, entirely unaware that no one else ever
had either.
"She was at the Bazaar the other night and admired your singing."
"Very good of her I am sure," replied Cassy, who, a born anarchist and
by the same token a born autocrat, loathed condescension.
Paliser corrected it. "No, not good--appreciative. She wants you to sing
at her house. If you are willing, could she arrange about it through
Madame Tamburini?"
"If she tried very hard, I suppose she might," Cassy, with the same
loftiness, answered.
But the loftiness was as unreal as Mrs. Beamish. Inwardly she jubilated,
wondering how much she would get. A hundred? In that case she could
repay Lennox at once. At the thought of it, again she revised her
opinion. Paliser was young and in her judgment all young men were
insects. On the other hand he was serviceable. Moreover, though he
looked cocky, he did not presume. He talked rot, but he did not argue.
Then, too, his car was a relief.
But now the car, after bolting through the Park and flying along the
Riverside, had swerved. It was mounting the upper reaches of the longest
highway on the planet. There it swerved again. From Broadway it barked
loudly into a side-street where easily, with a soapy slide, it stopped.
Paliser got out, preceded Cassy to the steps of the walk-up and smiled
in her face. "When?"
Cassy, the revised opinion of him about her, gave him her hand. "Ask the
telephone."
The hall took her. She was scaling the stairs. On the way Mrs. Beamish
accompanied her. She wished she could tell her father. Yet, if she told
him, how could she account for what she did with the money? And would it
be a hundred? Perhaps fifty, perhaps less.
But Paliser saw to it that Mrs. Beamish behaved properly. On the morrow
Ma Tamby dumped in Cassy's astonished lap two hundred and fifty--less
ten per cent., business is business--for samples of the bel canto which
Mrs. Beamish was not to hear, and for an excellent reason, there was no
such person.
