Ling Foo considered that he was playing his advantage honestly. He hadn't
robbed or murdered anybody. A business deal had slipped into his hands and
it was only logical to make the most of it. He kotowed several times on
the way out of the parlour, conscious, however, of the searching eyes of
the man who had balked him.
"Well!" exclaimed Jane. "What in the world do you suppose is going on?"
"Lord knows, but something is going on. You couldn't buy a jade necklace
like that under five hundred in New York. This apple-green seldom runs
deep; the colour runs in veins and patches. The bulk of the quarried stone
has the colour and greasy look of raw pork. No; I shouldn't put it on just
now, not until you have washed it. You never can tell. I'll get you a
germicide at the English apothecary's. Glass beads! Humph! Hanged if I can
make it out. Glass; Occidental, too; maybe worth five dollars in the
States. Put it on again. It's a great world over here. You're always
stumbling into something unique. I'm coming over to dine with you
to-night."
"Splendid!"
Jane put the jade into her hand-bag, clasped the glass beads round her
neck again, and together she and Dennison walked toward the parlour door.
As they reached it a tall, vigorous, elderly man with a gray pompadour
started to enter. He paused, with an upward tilt of the chin, but the tilt
was the result of pure astonishment. Instinctively Jane turned to her
escort. His chin was tilted, too, and his expression was a match for the
stranger's. Later, recalling the tableau, which lasted but a moment, it
occurred to Jane that two men, suddenly confronted by a bottomless pit,
might have expressed their dumfounderment in exactly this fashion.
In the lobby she said rather breathlessly: "You knew each other and didn't
speak! Who is he?"
The answer threw her into a hypnotic state.
"My father," said Dennison, quietly.
CHAPTER V
Father and son! For a while Jane had the sensation of walking upon
unsubstantial floors, of seeing unsubstantial objects. The encounter did
not seem real, human. Father and son, and they had not rushed into each
other's arms! No matter what had happened in the past, there should have
been some human sign other than astonishment. At the very least two or
three years had separated them. Just stared for a moment, and passed on!
Hypnotism is a fact; a word or a situation will create this peculiar state
of mind. Father and son! The phrase actually hypnotized Jane, and she
remained in the clutch of it until hours later, which may account for the
amazing events into which she permitted herself to be drawn. Father and
son! Her actions were normal; her mental state was not observable; but
inwardly she retained no clear recollection of the hours that intervened
between this and the astonishing climax. As from a distance, she heard the
voice of the son:
"Looks rum to you, no doubt. But I can't tell you the story--at least not
now. It's the story of a tomfool. I had no idea he was on this side. I
haven't laid eyes on him in seven years. Dinner at seven. I'll have that
germicide sent up to your room."
The captain nodded abruptly and made off toward the entrance.
Jane understood. He wanted to be alone--to catch his breath, as it were.
At any rate, that was a human sign that something besides astonishment was
stirring within. So she walked mechanically over to the bookstall and
hazily glanced at the backs of the new novels, riffled the pages of a
magazine; and to this day she cannot recall whether the clerk was a man or
a woman, white or brown or yellow, for a hand touched her sleeve lightly,
compelling her attention. Dennison's father stood beside her.
"Pardon me, but may I ask you a question?"
Jane dropped the fur collaret in her confusion. They both stooped for it,
and collided gently; but in rising the man glimpsed the string of glass
beads.
"Thank you," said Jane, as she received the collaret. "What is it you wish
to ask of me?"
"The name of the man you were with."
"Dennison; his own and yours--probably," she said with spirit, for she
took sides in that moment, and was positive that the blame for the
estrangement lay with the father. The level, unagitated voice irritated
her; she resented it. He wasn't human!
"My name is Cleigh--Anthony Cleigh. Thank you."
Cleigh bowed politely and moved away. Behind that calm, impenetrable mask,
however, was turmoil, kaleidoscopic, whirling too quickly for the brain to
grasp or hold definite shapes. The boy here! And the girl with those beads
round her throat! For the subsidence of this turmoil it was needful to
have space; so Cleigh strode out of the lobby into the fading day, made
his way across the bridge, and sought the Bund. He forgot all about his
appointment with Cunningham.
He lit a cigar and walked on and on, oblivious of the cries of the
'ricksha boys, importunate beggars, the human currents that broke and
flowed each side of him. The boy here in Shanghai! And that girl with
those beads round her throat! It was as though his head had become a
tom-tom in the hands of fate. The drumming made it impossible to think
clearly. It was the springing up of the electric lights that brought him
back to actualities. He looked at his watch.
He had been tramping up and down the Bund for two solid hours.
And now came, clearly defined, the idea for which he had been searching.
He indulged in a series of rumbling chuckles. You will have heard such a
sound in the forest when a stream suddenly takes on a merry mood--broken
water.
To return to Jane, whom Cleigh had left in a state of growing hypnosis.
She was able to act and think intelligently, but the spell lay like a fog
upon her will, enervating it. She grasped the situation clearly enough; it
was tremendous. She had heard of Anthony Cleigh. Who in America had not?
Father and son, and they had passed each other without a nod! Had she not
been a witness to the episode, she would not have believed such a
performance possible.
Through the fog burst a clear point of light. This was not the first time
she had encountered Anthony Cleigh. Where had she seen him before, and
under what circumstance? Later, when she was alone, she would dig into her
storehouse of recollection. Certainly she must bring back that episode.
One thing, she had not known him as Anthony Cleigh.
Father and son, and they had not spoken! It was this that beat
persistently upon her mind. What dramatic event had created such a
condition? After seven years! These two, strong mentally and physically,
in a private war! She understood now how it was that Dennison had been
able to tell her about Monte Carlo, the South Sea Islands, Africa, Asia;
he had been his father's companion on the yacht.
Mechanically she approached the lift. In her room all her actions were
more or less mechanical. From the back of her mind somewhere came the
order to her hands. She took down the evening gown. This time the subtle
odour of lavender left her untouched. To be beautiful, to wish that she
were beautiful! Why? Her hair was lovely; her neck and arms were lovely;
but her nose wasn't right, her mouth was too large, and her eyes missed
being either blue or hazel. Why did she wish to be beautiful?
Always to be poor, to be hanging on the edge of things, never enough of
this or that--genteel poverty. She had inherited the condition, as had her
mother before her--gentlefolk who had to count the pennies. Her two
sisters--really handsome girls--had married fairly well; but one lived in
St. Louis and the other in Seattle, so she never saw them any more.
Tired. That was it. Tired of the war for existence; tired of the following
odours of antiseptics; tired of the white walls of hospitals, the sight of
pain. On top of all, the level dullness of the past, the leaden horror of
these months in Siberia. She laughed brokenly. Gardens scattered all over
the world, and she couldn't find one--the gardens of imagination! Romance
everywhere, and she never could touch any of it!
Marriage. Outside of books, what was it save a legal contract to cook and
bear children in exchange for food and clothes? The humdrum! She flung out
her arms with a gesture of rage. She had been cheated, as always. She had
come to this side of the world expecting colour, movement, adventure. The
Orient of the novels she had read--where was it? Drab skies, drab people,
drab work! And now to return to America, to exchange one drab job for
another! Nadir, always nadir, never any zenith!
Her bitter cogitations were interrupted by a knock on the door. She threw
on her kimono and answered. A yellow hand thrust a bottle toward her. It
would be the wash for the jade. She emptied the soap dish, cleaned it,
poured in the germicide, and dropped the jade necklace into the liquid.
She left it there while she dressed.
Dennison Cleigh, returning to the States to look for a job! Nothing she
had ever read seemed quite so fantastic. She paused in her dressing to
stare at some inner thought which she projected upon the starred curtain
of the night beyond her window. Supposing they had wanted to fling
themselves into each other's arms and hadn't known how? She had had a
glimpse or two of Dennison's fierce pride. Naturally he had inherited it
from his father. Supposing they were just stupid rather than vengeful?
Poor, foolish human beings!
She proceeded with her toilet. Finishing that, she cleansed the jade
necklace with soap and water, then realized that she would not be able to
wear it, because the string would be damp. So she put on the glass beads
instead--another move by the Madonna of the Pagan. Jane Norman was to have
her fling.
Dennison was in the lobby waiting for her. He gave a little gasp of
delight as he beheld her. Of whom and of what did she remind him? Somebody
he had seen, somebody he had read about? For the present it escaped him.
Was she handsome? He could not say; but there was that in her face that
was always pulling his glance and troubling him for the want of knowing
why.
The way she carried herself among men had always impressed him. Fearless
and friendly, and with deep understanding, she created respect wherever
she went. Men, toughened and coarsened by danger and hardship, somehow
understood that Jane Norman was not the sort to make love to because one
happened to be bored. On the other hand, there was something in her that
called to every man, as a candle calls to the moth; only there were no
burnt wings; there seemed to be some invisible barrier that kept the
circling moths beyond the zone of incineration.
Was there fire in her? He wondered. That copper tint in her hair suggested
it. Magnificent! And what the deuce was the colour of her eyes? Sometimes
there was a glint of topaz, or cornflower sapphire, gray agate; they were
the most tantalizing eyes he had ever gazed into.
"Hungry?" he greeted her.
"For fourteen months!"
"Do you know what?"
"What?"
"I'd give a year of my life for a club steak and all the regular
fixings."
"That isn't fair! You've gone and spoiled my dinner."
"Wishy-washy chicken! How I hate tin cans! Pancakes and maple syrup!
What?"
"Sliced tomatoes with sugar and vinegar!"
"You don't mean that!"
"I do! I don't care how plebeian it is. Bread and butter and sliced
tomatoes with sugar and vinegar--better than all the ice cream that ever
was! Childhood ambrosia! For mercy's sake, let's get in before all the
wings are gone!"
They entered the huge dining room with its pattering Chinese boys--entered
it laughing--while all the time there was at bottom a single identical
thought--the father.
Would they see him again? Would he be here at one of the tables? Would a
break come, or would the affair go on eternally?
"I know what it is!" he cried, breaking through the spell.
"What?"
"Ever read 'Phra the Phoenician'?"
"Why, yes. But what is what?"
"For days I've been trying to place you. You're the British heroine!"
She thought for a moment to recall the physical attributes of this
heroine.
"But I'm not red-headed!" she denied, indignantly.
"But it is! It is the most beautiful head of hair I ever laid eyes on."
"And that is the beginning and the end of me," she returned with a little
catch in her voice.
The knowledge bore down upon her that her soul was thirsty for this kind
of talk. She did not care whether he was in earnest or not.
"The beginning, but not the end of you. Your eyes are fine, too. They keep
me wondering all the time what colour they really are."
"That's very nice of you."
"And the way you carry yourself!"
"Good gracious!"
"You look as if you had come down from Olympus and had lost the way
back."
"Captain, you're a dear! I've just been wild to have a man say foolish
things to me." She knew that she might play with this man; that he would
never venture across the line. "Men have said foolish things to me, but
always when I was too busy to bother. To-night I haven't anything in this
wide world to do but listen. Go on."
He laughed, perhaps a little ruefully.
"Is there any fire in you, I wonder?"
"Well?"--tantalizing.
"Honestly, I should like to see you in a rage. I've been watching you for
weeks, and have found myself irritated by that perpetual calm of yours.
That day of the riot you stood on the curb as unconcerned as though you
had been witnessing a movie."
"It is possible that it is the result of seeing so much pain and misery. I
have been a machine too long. I want to be thrust into the middle of some
fairy story before I die. I have never been in love, in a violent rage. I
haven't known anything but work and an abiding discontent. Red hair----"
"But it really isn't red. It's like the copper beech in the sunshine, full
of glowing embers."
"Are you a poet?"
"On my word, I don't know what I am."
"There is fire enough in you. The way you tossed about our boys and the
Japs!"
"In the blood. My father and I used to dress for dinner, but we always
carried the stone axe under our coats. We were both to blame, but only a
miracle will ever bring us together. I'm sorry I ran into him. It brings
the old days crowding back."
"I'm sorry."
"Oh, I'll survive! Somewhere there's a niche for me, and sooner or later
I'll find it."
"He stopped me in the lobby after you left. Wanted to know what name you
were using. I told him rather bluntly--and he went on. Something in his
voice--made me want to strike him!"
Dennison balanced a fork on a finger.
"Funny old world, isn't it?"
"Very. But I've seen him somewhere before. Perhaps in a little while it
will come back.... What an extraordinarily handsome man!"
"Where?"--with a touch of brusqueness.
"Sitting at the table on your left."
The captain turned. The man at the other table caught his eye, smiled, and
rose. As he approached Jane noticed with a touch of pity that the man
limped oddly. His left leg seemed to slue about queerly just before it
touched the floor.
"Well, well! Captain Cleigh!"
Dennison accepted the proffered hand, but coldly.
"On the way back to the States?"
"Yes."
"The Wanderer is down the river. I suppose you'll be going home on
her?"
"My orders prevent that."
"Run into the old boy?"
"Naturally," with a wry smile at Jane. "Miss Norman, Mr. Cunningham. Where
the shark is, there will be the pilot fish."
The stranger turned his eyes toward Jane's. The beauty of those dark eyes
startled her. Fire opals! They seemed to dig down into her very soul, as
if searching for something. He bowed gravely and limped back to his
table.
"I begin to understand," was Dennison's comment.
"Understand what?"
"All this racket about those beads. My father and this man Cunningham in
the same town generally has significance. It is eight years since I saw
Cunningham. Of course I could not forget his face, but it's rather
remarkable that he remembered mine. He is--if you tear away the
romance--nothing more or less than a thief."
"A thief?"--astonishedly.
"Not the ordinary kind; something of a prince of thieves. He makes it
possible--he and his ilk--for men like my father to establish private
museums. And now I'm going to ask you to do me a favour. It's just a
hunch. Hide those beads the moment you reach your room. They are yours as
much as any one's, and they may bring you a fancy penny--if my hunch is
worth anything. Hang that pigtail, for getting you mixed up in this! I
don't like it."
Jane's hand went slowly to her throat; and even as her fingers touched the
beads, now warm from contact, she became aware of something electrical
which drew her eyes compellingly toward the man with the face of Ganymede
and the limp of Vulcan. Four times she fought in vain, during dinner, that
drawing, burning glance--and it troubled her. Never before had a man's eye
forced hers in this indescribable fashion. It was almost as if the man had
said, "Look at me! Look at me!"
After coffee she decided to retire, and bade Dennison good-night. Once in
her room she laid the beads on the dresser and sat down by the window to
recast the remarkable ending of this day. From the stars to the room, from
the room to the stars, her glance roved uneasily. Had she fallen upon an
adventure? Was Dennison's theory correct regarding the beads? She rose and
went to the dresser, inspecting the beads carefully. Positively glass!
That Anthony Cleigh should be seeking a string of glass beads seemed
arrant nonsense.
She hung the beads on her throat and viewed the result in the mirror. It
was then that her eye met a golden glint. She turned to see what had
caused it, and was astonished to discover on the floor near the molding
that poor Chinaman's brass hand warmer. She picked it up and turned back
the jigsawed lid. The receptacle was filled with the ash of punk and
charcoal.
There came a knock on the door.
CHAPTER VI
Now, then, the further adventures of Ling Foo of Woosung Road. He was an
honest Chinaman. He would beat you down if he were buying, or he would
overcharge you if he were selling. There was nothing dishonest in this; it
was legitimate business. He was only shrewd, not crooked. But on this day
he came into contact with a situation that tried his soul, and tricked him
into overplaying his hand.
That morning he had returned to his shop in a contented frame of mind. He
stood clear of the tragedy of the night before. That had never happened;
he had dreamed it. Of course he would be wondering whether or not the man
had died.
When Ling Foo went forth with his business in his pack he always closed
the shop. Here in upper Woosung Road it would not have paid him to hire a
clerk. His wife, obedient creature though she was, spoke almost no
pidgin--business--English; and besides that, she was a poor bargainer.
It was hard by noon when he let himself into the shop. The first object he
sought was his metal pipe. Two puffs, and the craving was satisfied. He
took up his counting rack and slithered the buttons back and forth. He had
made three sales at the Astor and two at the Palace, which was fair
business, considering the times.
A shadow fell across the till top. Ling Foo raised his slanted eyes. His
face was like a graven Buddha's, but there was a crackling in his ears as
of many fire-crackers. There he stood--the man with the sluing walk! Ling
Foo still wore a queue, so his hair could not very well stand on end.
"You speak English."
It was not a question; it was a statement.
Ling Foo shrugged.
"Can do."
"Cut out the pidgin. Your neighbour says you speak English fluently. At
Moy's tea-house restaurant they say that you lived in California for
several years."
"Twelve," said Ling Foo with a certain dry humour.
"Why didn't you admit me last night?"
"Shop closed."
"Where is it?"
"Where is what?" asked the merchant.
"The string of glass beads you found on the floor last night."
A sense of disaster rolled over the Oriental. Had he been overhasty in
ridding himself of the beads? Patience! Wait a bit! Let the stranger open
the door to the mystery.
"Glass beads?" he repeated, ruminatively.
"I will give you ten gold for them."
Ha! Now they were getting somewhere. Ten gold! Then those devil beads had
some worth outside a jeweller's computations? Ling Foo smiled and spread
his yellow hands.
"I haven't them."
"Where are they?"
The Oriental loaded his pipe and fired it.
"Where is the man who stumbled in here last night?" he countered.
"His body is probably in the Yang-tse by now," returned Cunningham,
grimly.
He knew his Oriental. He would have to frighten this Chinaman badly, or
engage his cupidity to a point where resistance would be futile.
There was a devil brooding over his head. Ling Foo felt it strangely. His
charms were in the far room. He would have to fend off the devil without
material aid, and that was generally a hopeless job. With that twist of
Oriental thought which will never be understood by the Occidental, Ling
Foo laid down his campaign.
"I found it, true. But I sold it this morning."
"For how much?"
"Four Mex."
Cunningham laughed. It was actually honest laughter, provoked by a lively
sense of humour.
"To whom did you sell it, and where can I find the buyer?"
Ling Foo picked up the laughter, as it were, and gave his individual quirk
to it.
"I see," said Cunningham, gravely.
"So?"
"Get that necklace back for me and I will give you a hundred gold."
"Five hundred."
"You saw what happened last night."
"Oh, you will not beat in my head," Ling Foo declared, easily. "What is
there about this string of beads that makes it worth a hundred gold--and
life worth nothing?"
"Very well," said Cunningham, resignedly. "I am a secret agent of the
British Government. That string of glass beads is the key to a code
relating to the uprisings in India. The loss of it will cost a great deal
of money and time. Bring it back here this afternoon, and I will pay down
five hundred gold."
"I agree," replied Ling Foo, tossing his pipe into the alcove. "But no one
must follow me. I do not trust you. There is nothing to prevent you from
robbing me in the street and refusing to pay me. And where will you get
five hundred gold? Gold has vanished. Even the leaf has all but
disappeared."
Cunningham dipped his hand into a pocket, and magically a dozen double
eagles rolled and vibrated upon the counter, sending into Ling Foo's ears
that music so peculiar to gold. Many days had gone by since he had set his
gaze upon the yellow metal. His hand reached down--only to feel--but not
so quickly as the white hand, which scooped up the coin trickily, with the
skill of a prestidigitator.
"Five hundred gold, then. But are you sure you can get the beads back?"
Ling Foo smiled.
"I have a way. I will meet you in the lobby of the Astor House at five";
and he bowed with Oriental courtesy.
"Agreed. All aboveboard, remember, or you will feel the iron hand of the
British Government."
Ling Foo doubted that, but he kept this doubt to himself.
"I warn you, I shall go armed. You will bring the gold to the Astor House.
If I see you after I depart----"
"Lord love you, once that code key is in my hands you can go to heaven or
the devil, as you please! We live in rough times, Ling Foo."
"So we do. There is a stain on the floor, about where you stand. It is the
blood of a white man."
"What would you, when a comrade attempts to deceive you?"
"At five in the lobby of the Astor House. Good day," concluded Ling Foo,
fingering the buttons on his counting rack.
Cunningham limped out into the cold sunshine. Ling Foo shook his head. So
like a boy's, that face! He shuddered slightly. He knew that a savage
devil lay ready behind that handsome mask--he had seen it last night. But
five hundred gold--for a string of glass beads!
Ling Foo was an honest man. He would pay you cash for cash in a bargain.
If he overcharged you that was your fault, but he never sold you
imitations on the basis that you would not know the difference. If he sold
you a Ming jar--for twice what it was worth in the great marts--experts
would tell you that it was Ming. He had some jade of superior quality--the
translucent deep apple-green. He never carried it about; he never even
spoke of it unless he was sure that the prospective customer was wealthy.
His safe was in a corner of his workshop. An American yegg would have
laughed at it, opened it as easily as a ripe peach; but in this district
it was absolute security. Ling Foo was obliged to keep a safe, for often
he had valuable pearls to take care of, sometimes to put new vigour in
dying lustre, sometimes to peel a pearl on the chance that under the dull
skin lay the gem.
He trotted to the front door and locked it; then he trotted into his
workshop, planning. If the glass beads were worth five hundred, wasn't it
likely they would be worth a thousand? If this man who limped had stuck to
the hundred Ling Foo knew that he would have surrendered eventually. But
the ease with which the stranger made the jump from one to five convinced
Ling Foo that there could be no harm in boosting five to ten. If there was
a taint of crookedness anywhere, that would be on the other side. Ling Foo
knew where the beads were, and he would transfer them for one thousand
gold. Smart business, nothing more than that. He had the whip hand.
Out of his safe he took a blackwood box, beautifully carved, Cantonese.
Headbands, earrings, rings, charms, necklaces, tomb ornaments, some of
them royal, all of them nearly as ancient as the hills of Kwanlun, from
which most of them had been quarried--jade. He trickled them from palm to
palm and one by one returned the objects to the box. In the end he
retained two strings of beads so alike that it was difficult to discern
any difference. One was Kwanlun jade, royal loot; the other was a copy in
Nanshan stone. The first was priceless, worth what any fool collector was
ready to pay; the copy was worth perhaps a hundred gold. Held to the
light, there was a subtle difference; but only an expert could have told
you what this difference was. The royal jade did not catch the light so
strongly as the copy; the touch of human warmth had slightly dulled the
stone.
Ling Foo transferred the copy to a purse he wore attached to his belt
under the blue jacket. The young woman would never be able to resist the
jade. She would return the glass instantly. A thousand gold, less the cost
of the jade! Good business!
But for once his Oriental astuteness overreached, as has been seen. And to
add to his discomfiture, he never again saw the copy of the Kwanlun,
representing the virtue of the favourite wife.
                   *       *       *       *       *
"I am an honest man," he said. "The tombs of my ancestors are not
neglected. When I say I could not get it I speak the truth. But I believe
I can get it later."
"How?" asked Cunningham. They were in the office, or bureau, of the Astor
House, which the manager had turned over to them for the moment.
"Remember, the arm of the British Government is long."
Ling Foo shrugged.
"Being an honest man, I do not fear. She would have given it to me but for
that officer. He knew something about jade."
Cunningham nodded.
"Conceivably he would." He jingled the gold in his pocket. "How do you
purpose to get the beads?"
"Go to the lady's room late. I left the jade with her. Alone, she will not
resist. I saw it in her eyes. But it will be difficult."
"I see. For you to get into the hotel late. I'll arrange that with the
manager. You will be coming to my room. What floor is her room on?"
"The third."
"The same as mine. That falls nicely. Return then at half after ten. You
will come to my room for the gold."
Ling Foo saw his thousand shrink to the original five hundred, but there
was no help for it. At half after ten he knocked on the panel of Jane's
door and waited. He knocked again; still the summons was not answered. The
third assault was emphatic. Ling Foo heard footsteps, but behind him. He
turned. The meddling young officer was striding toward him.
"What are you doing here?" Dennison demanded.
His own appearance in the corridor at this hour might have been
subjectable to inquiry. He had left Jane at nine. He had seen her to the
lift. Perhaps he had walked the Bund for an hour or two, but worriedly.
The thought of the arrival in Shanghai of his father and the rogue
Cunningham convinced him that some queer game was afoot, and that it
hinged somehow upon those beads.
There was no sighing in regard to his father, for the past that was. An
astonishing but purely accidental meeting; to-morrow each would go his
separate way again. All that was a closed page. He had long ago readjusted
his outlook on the basis that reconciliation was hopeless.
A sudden impulse spun him on his heel, and he hurried back to the Astor.
The hour did not matter, or the possibility that Jane might be abed. He
would ask permission to become the temporary custodian of the beads. What
were they, to have brought his father across the Pacific--if indeed they
had? Anyhow, he would end his own anxiety in regard to Jane by assuming
the risks, if any, himself.
No one questioned him; his uniform was a passport that required no visé.
Ling Foo eyed him blandly.
"I am leaving for the province in the morning, so I had to come for my
jade to-night. But the young lady is not in her room."
"She must be!" cried Dennison, alarmed. "Miss Norman?" he called, beating
on the door.
No sound answered from within. Dennison pondered for a moment. Ling Foo
also pondered--apprehensively. He suspected that some misfortune had
befallen the young woman, for her kind did not go prowling alone round
Shanghai at night. Slue-Foot! Should he utter his suspicion to this
American officer? But if it should become a police affair! Bitterly he
arraigned himself for disclosing his hand to Slue-Foot. That demon had
forestalled him. No doubt by now he had the beads. Ten thousand devils
pursue him!
Dennison struck his hands together, and by and by a sleepy Chinese boy
came scuffling along the corridor.
"Talkee manager come topside," said Dennison. When the manager arrived,
perturbed, Dennison explained the situation.
"Will you open the door?"
The manager agreed to do that. The bedroom was empty. The bed had not been
touched. But there was no evidence that the occupant did not intend to
return.
"We shall leave everything just as it is," said Dennison, authoritatively.
"I am her friend. If she does not return by one o'clock I shall notify the
police and have the young lady's belongings transferred to the American
consulate. She is under the full protection of the United States
Government. You will find out if any saw her leave the hotel, and what the
time was. Stay here in the doorway while I look about."
He saw the jade necklace reposing in the soap dish, and in an ironical
mood he decided not to announce the discovery to the Chinaman. Let him pay
for his cupidity. In some mysterious manner he had got his yellow claws on
those infernal beads, and the rogue Cunningham had gone to him with a
substantial bribe. So let the pigtail wail for his jade.
On the dresser he saw a sheet of paper partly opened. Beside it lay a torn
envelope. Dennison's heart lost a beat. The handwriting was his father's!
CHAPTER VII
Jane had gone to meet his father. How to secrete this note without being
observed by either the manager or the Chinaman? An accident came to his
aid. Someone in the corridor banged a door violently, and as the manager's
head and Ling Foo's jerked about, Dennison stuffed the note into a
pocket.
A trap! Dennison wasn't alarmed--he was only furious. Jane had walked into
a trap. She had worn those accursed beads when his father had approached
her by the bookstall that afternoon. The note had attacked her curiosity
from a perfectly normal angle. Dennison had absorbed enough of the note's
contents to understand how readily Jane had walked into the trap.
Very well. He would wait in the lobby until one; then if Jane had not
returned he would lay the plans of a counter-attack, and it would be a
rough one. Of course no bodily harm would befall Jane, but she would
probably be harried and bullied out of those beads. But would she? It was
not unlikely that she would become a pretty handful, once she learned she
had been tricked. If she balked him, how would the father act? The old
boy was ruthless when he particularly wanted something.
If anything should happen to her--an event unlooked for, accidental, over
which his father would have no control--this note would bring the old boy
into a peck of trouble; and Dennison was loyal enough not to wish this to
happen. And yet it would be only just to make the father pay once for his
high-handedness. That would be droll--to see his father in the dock,
himself as a witness against him! Here was the germ of a tiptop drama.
But all this worry was doubtless being wasted upon mere supposition. Jane
might turn over the beads without bargaining, provided the father had any
legal right to them, which Dennison strongly doubted.
He approached Ling Foo and seized him roughly by the arm.
"What do you know about these glass beads?"
Ling Foo elevated a shoulder and let it fall.
"Nothing, except that the man who owns them demands that I recover them."
"And who is this man?"
"I don't know his name."
"That won't pass. You tell me who he is or I'll turn you over to the
police."
"I am an honest man," replied Ling Foo with dignity. He appealed to the
manager.
"I have known Ling Foo a long time, sir. He is perfectly honest."
Ling Foo nodded. He knew that this recommendation, honest as it was, would
have weight with the American.
"But you have some appointment with this man. Where is that to be? I
demand to know that."
Ling Foo saw his jade vanish along with his rainbow gold. His early
suppositions had been correct.
Those were devil beads, and evil befell any who touched them.
Silently he cursed the soldier's ancestors half a thousand years back. If
the white fool hadn't meddled in the parlour that afternoon!
"Come with me," he said, finally.
The game was played out; the counters had gone back to the basket. He had
no desire to come into contact with police officials. Only it was as
bitter as the gall of chicken, and he purposed to lessen his own
discomfort by making the lame man share it. Oriental humour.
Dennison and the hotel manager followed him curiously. At the end of the
corridor Ling Foo stopped and knocked on a door. It was opened
immediately.
"Ah! Oh!"
The inflections touched Dennison's sense of humour, and he smiled. A
greeting with a snap-back of dismay.
"I'm not surprised," he said. "I had a suspicion I'd find you in this
somewhere."
"Find me in what?" asked Cunningham, his poise recovered. He, too, began
to smile. "Won't you come in?"
"What about these glass beads?"
"Glass beads? Oh, yes. But why?"
"I fancy you'd better come out into the clear, Cunningham," said Dennison,
grimly.
"You wish to know about those beads? Very well, I'll explain, because
something has happened--I know not what. You all look so infernally
serious. Those beads are a key to a code. The British Government is keenly
anxious to recover this key. In the hands of certain Hindus those beads
would constitute bad medicine."
Ling Foo spread his hands relievedly.
"That is the story. I was to receive five hundred gold for their
recovery."
"A code key," said Dennison, musing.
He knew Cunningham was lying. Anthony Cleigh wasn't the man to run across
half the world for a British code key. On the other hand, perhaps it would
be wise to let the hotel manager and the Chinaman continue in the belief
that the affair concerned a British code.
"If I did not know you tolerably well----"
"My dear captain, you don't know me at all," interrupted Cunningham. "Have
you got the beads?"
"I have not. I doubt if you will ever lay eyes on them again."
Something flashed across the handsome face. Ling Foo alone recognized it.
He had glimpsed it, this expression, outside his window the night before.
He recalled the dark stain on the floor of his shop, and he also
recollected a saying of Confucius relative to greed. He wished he was back
in his shop, well out of this muddle. The jade could go, valuable as it
was. With his hands tucked in his sleeves he waited.
Dennison turned upon the manager. He wanted to be alone with Cunningham.
"Go down and make inquiries, and take this Chinaman with you. I'll be with
you shortly." As soon as the two were out of the way Dennison said:
"Cunningham, the lady who wore those beads at dinner to-night has gone out
alone, wearing them. If I find that you are anywhere back of this
venture--if she does not return shortly--I will break you as I would a
churchwarden pipe."
Cunningham appeared genuinely taken aback.
"She went out alone?"
"Yes."
"Have you notified the police?"
"Not yet. I'm giving her until one; then I shall start something."
"Something tells me," said Cunningham, easily, "that Miss Norman is in no
danger. But she would never have gone out if I had been in the lobby. If
she has not returned by one call me. Any assistance I can give will be
given gladly. Women ought never to be mixed up in affairs such as this
one, on this side of the world. Tell your father that he ought to know by
this time that he is no match for me."
"What do you mean by that?"
"Innocent! You know very well what I mean. If you hadn't a suspicion of
what has happened you would be roaring up and down the corridors with the
police. You run true to the breed. It's a good one, I'll admit. But your
father will regret this night's work."
"Perhaps. Here, read this."
Dennison extended the note. Cunningham, his brows bent, ran through the
missive.
  MISS NORMAN: Will you do me the honour to meet me at the bridgehead
  at half-past nine--practically at once? My son and I are not on
  friendly terms. Still, I am his father, and I'd like to hear what he
  has been doing over here. I will have a limousine, and we can ride
  out on the Bubbling Well Road while we talk.
                                                     ANTHONY CLEIGH.
"Didn't know," said Cunningham, returning the note, "that you two were at
odds. But this is a devil of a mix-up, if it's what I think."
"What do you think?"
"That he's abducted her--carried her off to the yacht."
"He's no fool," was the son's defense.
"He isn't, eh? Lord love you, sonny, your father and I are the two biggest
fools on all God's earth!"
The door closed sharply in Dennison's face and the key rasped in the
lock.
For a space Dennison did not stir. Why should he wish to protect his
father? Between his father and this handsome rogue there was small choice.
The old boy made such rogues possible. But supposing Cleigh had wished
really to quiz Jane? To find out something about these seven years, lean
and hard, with stretches of idleness and stretches of furious labour,
loneliness? Well, the father would learn that in all these seven years the
son had never faltered from the high level he had set for his conduct.
That was a stout staff to lean on--he had the right to look all men
squarely in the eye.
He had been educated to inherit millions; he had not been educated to
support himself by work in a world that specialized. He had in these seven
years been a jeweller's clerk, an auctioneer in a salesroom; he had
travelled from Baluchistan to Damascus with carpet caravans, but he had
never forged ahead financially. Generally the end of a job had been the
end of his resources. One fact the thought of which never failed to buck
him up--he had never traded on his father's name.
Then had come the war. He had returned to America, trained, and they had
assigned him to Russia. But that had not been without its reward--he had
met Jane.
In a New York bank, to his credit, was the sum of twenty thousand dollars,
at compound interest for seven years, ready to answer to the scratch of a
pen, but he had sworn he would never touch a dollar of it. Never before
had the thought of it risen so strongly to tempt him. His for the mere
scratch of a pen!
In the lobby he found the manager pacing nervously, while Ling Foo sat
patiently and inscrutably.
"Why do you wait?" inquired Dennison, irritably.
"The lady has some jade of mine," returned Ling Foo, placidly. "It was a
grave mistake."
"What was?"
"That you interfered this afternoon. The lady would be in her room at this
hour. The devil beads would not be casting a spell on us."
"Devil beads, eh?"
Ling Foo shrugged and ran his hands into his sleeves. Somewhere along the
banks of the Whangpoo or the Yang-tse would be the body of an unknown, but
Ling Foo's lips were locked quite as securely as the dead man's. Devil
beads they were.
"When did the man upstairs leave the beads with you?"
"Last night."
"For what reason?"
"He will tell you. It is none of my affair now." And that was all Dennison
could dig out of Ling Foo.
Jane Norman did not return at one o'clock; in fact, she never returned to
the Astor House. Dennison waited until three; then he went back to the
Palace, and Ling Foo to his shop and oblivion.
Dennison decided that he did not want the police in the affair. In that
event there would be a lot of publicity, followed by the kind of talk that
stuck. He was confident that he could handle the affair alone. So he
invented a white lie, and nobody questioned it because of his uniform.
Miss Norman had found friends, and shortly she would send for her effects;
but until that time she desired the consulate to take charge. Under the
eyes of the relieved hotel manager and an indifferent clerk from the
consulate the following morning Dennison packed Jane's belongings and
conveyed them to the consulate, which was hard by. Next he proceeded to
the water front and engaged a motor boat. At eleven o'clock he drew up
alongside the Wanderer II.
"Hey, there!" shouted a seaman. "Sheer off! Orders to receive no
visitors!"
Dennison began to mount, ignoring the order. It was a confusing situation
for the sailor. If he threw this officer into the yellow water--as
certainly he would have thrown a civilian--Uncle Sam might jump on his
back and ride him to clink. Against this was the old man, the very devil
for obedience to his orders. If he pushed this lad over, the clink; if he
let him by, the old man's foot. And while the worried seaman was reaching
for water with one hand and wind with the other, as the saying goes,
Dennison thrust him roughly aside, crossed the deck to the main
companionway, and thundered down into the salon.
CHAPTER VIII
Cleigh sat before a card table; he was playing Chinese Canfield. He looked
up, but he neither rose nor dropped the half-spent deck of cards he held
in his hand. The bronzed face, the hard agate blue of the eyes that met
his own, the utter absence of visible agitation, took the wind out of
Dennison's sails and left him all a-shiver, like a sloop coming about on a
fresh tack. He had made his entrance stormily enough, but now the hot
words stuffed his throat to choking.
Cleigh was thirty years older than his son; he was a finished master of
sentimental emotions; he could keep all his thoughts out of his
countenance when he so willed. But powerful as his will was, in this
instance it failed to reach down into his heart; and that thumped against
his ribs rather painfully. The boy!
Dennison, aware that he stood close to the ridiculous, broke the spell and
advanced.
"I have come for Miss Norman," he said.
Cleigh scrutinized the cards and shifted one.
"I found your note to her. I've a launch. I don't know what the game is,
but I'm going to take Miss Norman back with me if I have to break in every
door on board!"
Cleigh stood up. As he did so Dodge, the Texan appeared in the doorway to
the dining salon. Dennison saw the blue barrel of a revolver.
"A gunman, eh? All right. Let's see if he'll shoot," said the son, walking
deliberately toward Dodge.
"No, Dodge!" Cleigh called out as the Texan, raised the revolver. "You may
go."
Dodge, a good deal astonished, backed out. Once more father and son stared
at each other.
"Better call it off," advised the son. "You can't hold Miss Norman--and I
can make a serious charge. Bring her at once, or I'll go for her. And the
Lord help the woodwork if I start!"
But even as he uttered the threat Dennison heard a sound behind. He
turned, but not soon enough. In a second he was on the floor, three husky
seamen mauling him. They had their hands full for a while, but in the end
they conquered.
"What next, sir?" asked one of the sailors, breathing hard.
"Tie him up and lock him in Cabin Two."
The first order was executed. After Dennison's arms and ankles were bound
the men stood him up.
"Are you really my father?"
Cleigh returned to his cards and shuffled them for a new deal.
"Don't untie him. He might walk through the partition. He will have the
freedom of the deck when we are out of the delta."
Dennison was thereupon carried to Cabin Two, and deposited upon the
stationary bed. He began to laugh. There was a sardonic note in this
laughter, like that which greets you when you recount some incredible
tale. His old cabin!
The men shook their heads, as if confronted by something so unusual that
it wasn't worth while to speculate upon it. The old man's son! They went
out, locking the door. By this time Dennison's laughter had reached the
level of shouting, but only he knew how near it was to tears--wrathful,
murderous, miserable tears! He fought his bonds terrifically for a moment,
then relaxed.
For seven years he had been hugging the hope that when he and his father
met blood would tell, and that their differences would vanish in a strong
handclasp; and here he lay, trussed hand and foot, in his old cabin, not a
crack in that granite lump his father called a heart!
A childish thought! Some day to take that twenty thousand with accrued
interest, ride up to the door, step inside, dump the silver on that old
red Samarkand, and depart--forever.
Where was she? This side of the passage or the other?
"Miss Norman?" he called.
"Yes?" came almost instantly from the cabin aft.
"This is Captain Dennison. I'm tied up and lying on the bed. Can you hear
me distinctly?"
"Yes. Your father has made a prisoner of you? Of all the inhuman acts! You
came in search of me?"
"Naturally. Have you those infernal beads?"
"No."
Dennison twisted about until he had his shoulders against the brass rail
of the bed head.
"What happened?"
"It was a trick. It was not to talk about you--he wanted the beads, and
that made me furious."
"Were you hurt in the struggle?"
"There wasn't any. I really don't know what possessed me. Perhaps I was a
bit hypnotized. Perhaps I was curious. Perhaps I wanted--some excitement.
On my word, I don't know just what happened. Anyhow, here I am--in a
dinner gown, bound for Hong-Kong, so he says. He offered me ten thousand
for the beads, and my freedom, if I would promise not to report his
high-handedness; and I haven't uttered a sound."
"Heaven on earth, why didn't you accept his offer?"
A moment of silence.
"In the first place, I haven't the beads. In the second place, I want to
make him all the trouble I possibly can. Now that he has me, he doesn't
know what to do with me. Hoist by his own petard. Do you want the truth?
Well, I'm not worried in the least. I feel as if I'd been invited to some
splendiferous picnic."
"That's foolish," he remonstrated.
"Of course it is. But it's the sort of foolishness I've been aching for
all my life. I knew something was going to happen. I broke my hand mirror
night before last. Two times seven years' bad luck. Now he has me, I'll
wager he's half frightened out of his wits. But what made you think of the
yacht?"
"We forced the door of your room, and I found the note. Has he told you
what makes those infernal beads so precious?"
"No. I can't figure that out."
"No more can I. Did he threaten you?"
"Yes. Would I enter the launch peacefully, or would he have to carry me? I
didn't want my gown spoiled--it's the only decent one I have. I'm not
afraid. It isn't as though he were a stranger. Being your father, he would
never stoop to any indignity. But he'll find he has caught a tartar. I
had an idea you'd find me."
"Well, I have. But you won't get to Hong-Kong. The minute he liberates me
I'll sneak into the wireless room and bring the destroyers. I didn't
notify the police from a bit of foolish sentiment. I didn't quite want you
mixed up in the story. I had your things conveyed to the consulate."
"My story--which few men would believe. I've thought of that. Are you
smoking?"
"Smoking, with my hands tied behind my back? Not so you'd notice it."
"I smell tobacco smoke--a good cigar, too."
"Then someone is in the passage listening."
Silence. Anthony Cleigh eyed his perfecto rather ruefully and tiptoed back
to the salon. Hoist by his own petard. He was beginning to wonder. Cleigh
was a man who rarely regretted an act, but in the clear light of day he
was beginning to have his doubts regarding this one. A mere feather on the
wrong side of the scale, and the British destroyers would be atop of him
like a flock of kites. Abduction! Cut down to bedrock, he had laid himself
open to that. He ran his fingers through his cowlicks. But drat the woman!
why had she accepted the situation so docilely? Since midnight not a sound
out of her, not a wail, not a sob. Now he had her, he couldn't let her
go. She was right there.
There was one man in the crew Cleigh had begun to dislike intensely, and
he had been manoeuvring ever since Honolulu to find a legitimate excuse to
give the man his papers. Something about the fellow suggested covert
insolence; he had the air of a beachcomber who had unexpectedly fallen
into a soft berth, and it had gone to his head. He had been standing watch
at the ladder head, and against positive orders he had permitted a visitor
to pass him. To Cleigh this was the handle he had been hunting for. He
summoned the man.
"Get your duffle," said Cleigh.
"What's that, sir?"
"Get your stuff. You're through. You had positive orders, and you let a
man by."
"But his uniform fussed me, sir. I didn't know just how to act."
"Get your stuff! Mr. Cleve will give you your pay. My orders are absolute.
Off with you!"
The sailor sullenly obeyed. He found the first officer alone in the chart
house.
"The boss has sent me for my pay, Mr. Cleve. I'm fired." Flint grinned
amiably.
"Fired? Well, well," said Cleve, "that's certainly tough luck--all this
way from home. I'll have to pay you in Federal Reserve bills. The old man
has the gold."
"Federal Reserve it is. Forty-six dollars in Uncle Samuels."
The first officer solemnly counted out the sum and laid it on the palm of
the discharged man.
"Tough world."
"Oh, I'm not worrying! I'll bet you this forty-six against ten that I've
another job before midnight."
Mr. Cleve grinned.
"Always looking for sure-thing bets! Better hail that bumboat with the
vegetables to row you into town. The old man'll dump you over by hand if
he finds you here between now and sundown."
"I'll try the launch there. Tell the lad his fare ain't goin' back to
Shanghai. Of course it makes it a bit inconvenient, packing and unpacking;
but I guess I can live through it. But what about the woman?"
Cleve plucked at his chin.
"Messes up the show a bit. Pippin, though. I like 'em when they walk
straight and look straight like this one. Notice her hair? You never tame
that sort beyond parlour manners. But I don't like her on board here, or
the young fellow, either. Don't know him, but he's likely to bust the
yacht wide open if he gets loose."
"Well, so long, Mary! Know what my first move'll be?"
"A bottle somewhere. But mind your step! Don't monkey with the stuff
beyond normal. You know what I mean."
"Sure! Only a peg or two, after all this psalm-singing!"
"I know, Flint. But this game is no joke. You know what happened in town?
Morrissy was near croaked."
Flint's face lost some of its gayety.
"Oh, I know how to handle the stuff! See you later."
                   *       *       *       *       *
Cleigh decided to see what the girl's temper was, so he entered the
passage on the full soles of his shoes. He knocked on her door.
