 
IV 
Said Alexina : ' ' Sibyl, what are you going to do with 
your young life ? Shall you marry an English duke or 
a New York millionaire ? ' ' 
But Miss Thorndyke smiled mysteriously. She was not 
as frank as the other girls, although by no means as 
opaque as she imagined. 
Aileen laughed. "Oh, don't ask her. Doubt if she 
knows. To-day she 's all for beiag intellectual and reading those damn dull Russian novelists. To-morrow she 
may be setting up as an odalisque. It would suit her 
style better." 
Miss Thorndyke 's face was also crimson from the heat, 
but she would not have flushed had it been the day before. She was not subject to sudden reflexes. 
"Your satire is always a bit clumsy, dear," she said 
sweetly. ' ' The odalisque is not your role at all events. ' ' 
' ' I don 't go in for roles. ' ' 
And the four girls wrangled and dreamed and planned, 
while a city burnt beneath them; some three hundred 
million dollars flamed out, lives were ruined, exterminated, altered; and Labor sat on the hills and smiled 
cynically at the tremendous impetus the earth had 
handed them on that morning of April eighteenth, nineteen hundred and six. 
They were too young to know or to care. When the 
imagination is trying its wings it is undismayed even 
by a world at war. 
CHAPTER V 
THAT night Alexina knew that romance had surely 
come to her. She shared her room with three old 
ladies who slept fitfully between blasts of dynamite. But 
she sat at the window with no desire for oblivion. 
On the lawn paced a young man with a rifle in the 
 
crook of his arm. He was tall and young and very gallant of bearing; no less a person than Mortimer Dwight, 
who had been sworn in that morning as a member of the 
Citizens ' Patrol, and at his own request detailed to keep 
watch over the house of Mrs. Groome. 
He had not been able to pay his promised visits during 
the day but had arrived at seven o'clock, dining beside 
Mrs. Abbott, and surrounded by old ladies whose names 
were as historic as Mrs. Groome 's. The cook had deserted after the second heavy shock, and, with her ward- 
robe in a pillow case, had tramped to the farthest confines of the Presidio. It was not fear alone that induced 
her flight. There was a rumor that the Government 
would feed the city, and why should not a hard-working 
woman enjoy a month or two of sheer idleness ? Let the 
quality cook for themselves. It would do them good. 
James and the housemaid had cooked the dinner, and 
Alexina and her friends waited on the table. Then the 
girls, to Alexina 's relief, went home to inquire after their 
families, and she accompanied Mr. Dwight while he explored every corner of the grounds to make sure that no 
potential thieves lurked in the heavy shadows cast by 
the trees. 
He had been very alert and thorough and Alexina 
admired him consumedly. There was no question but 
that he was one of those men — Aileen called it the one 
hundred per cent male — upon whose clear brain and 
strong arm a woman might depend even in the midst of 
an infuriated mob. He had an opportunity that comes 
to few aspiring young men born into the world 's unblest 
millions, and if he made the most of it he was equally 
assured that he was acting in strict accord with the instincts and characteristics that had descended upon him 
by the grace of God. 
There was no physical cowardice in him; and if he 
would have preferred a life of ease and splendor, he had 
no illusions regarding the amount of "hustling" necessary to carry him to the goal of his desires and ambitions — unless he made a lucky strike. He played the 
 
stock market in a small way and made a few hundred 
dollars now and then. 
He would have been glad to marry a wealthy girl, Olive 
Baseom, by preference, for he had an inner urge to the 
short cut, but he had found these spoiled daughters of 
San Francisco unresponsive . . . and then, suddenly, he 
had fallen in love with Alexina Groome. 
His past was green and prophylactic. He was moral 
both by inheritance and necessity, and his parents, people of fair intelligence, if rather ineffective, stem principles, and good old average ideals, had taken their re- 
sponsibilities toward their two children very seriously. 
People who talked with young Dwight might not find 
him resourceful in conversation but they were deeply 
impressed with his manners and principles. The younger 
men, with the exception of Bob Cheever, who respected 
his capacity for work, did not take to him; principally, 
no doubt, he reflected with some bitterness, because he 
was not "their sort." 
He never admitted to himself that he was a snob, for 
something deep and still unfaced in his consciousness, 
bade him see as little fault in himself as possible, forbade him to admit the contingency of a failure, impelled 
him to call such weaknesses as the fortunate condemned 
by some one of those interchangeable terms with which 
the lexicons are so generous. 
But if he would not face the word snob he told him- 
self proudly that he was ambitious; and why should he 
not aspire to the best society ? "Was he not entitled to it by 
birth ? His family may not have been prominent to excess 
in Utica, but it was indisputably ' ' old. ' ' However, he assured himself that the chief reason for his determination 
to mingle with the social elect of San Francisco was not 
so much a tribute to his ancestors, or even the insistence 
of youth for the decent pleasures of that brief period, 
but because of the opportunities to make those friends 
indispensable to every young man forced to cut his own 
way through life. Even if his good conscience had compelled him to admit that he was a snob he would have 
reminded it there was no harm in snobbery anyway. It 
was the most amiable of the vices. But he thought too 
 
well of himself for any such admission, and his mind 
had not been trained to fish, even in shallow waters. 
Nor did he admit that if the lovely Miss Groome had 
been a stenographer he would not have looked at her. 
He would indeed have turned his face resolutely in the 
other direction if she had happened to sit in his employer's office. Fate forbade him a marriage of that 
sort, and dalliance with an inferior was forbidden both 
by his morals and his social integrity. 
But that Alexina Groome should be beautiful, as exaltedly born as only a San Franciscan of the old stock 
might be, with a determinate income, howevermodest, with 
a background of friendly males, as substantial financially 
as socially, who would be sure to give a new member of 
the family a leg-up (he liked the atmosphere and flavor 
of the lighter English novels), and, above all, responsive, 
seemed to him a direct reward for the circumspect life 
he had lived and his fidelity to his chosen upward path. 
He was free to fall in love as profoundly as was in 
him, and during that early hour of the agitated night, 
with that pit of hell roaring below to the steady undertone of a thousand tramping feet, he felt, despite the 
fact that all business was moribund for the present and 
his savings were in the hot vaults of a dynamited bank, 
that he was a supremely fortunate young man. 
Moreover, this disaster furnished a steady topic for 
conversation. He was aware that he contributed little 
froth and less substance to a dinner table, that, in short, 
he did not keep up his end. Although he assured himself that small talk was beneath a man of serious purpose, and that no one could acquire it anyhow in society 
unless addicted to sport, still there had been times when 
he was painfully aware that a dinner partner or some 
bright charming creature whose invitation to call he had 
accepted, looked politely bored or chattered desperately 
to cover the silences into which he abruptly relapsed; 
 
when, "for the life of him he had not been able to think 
of a thing to say. " 
Then, briefly, he had felt a bitter rebellion at fate for 
having denied liim the gift of a lively and supple mind, 
as well as those numberless worldly benefits lavished on 
men far less deserving than he. 
He felt dull and depressed after such revelations and 
sometimes considered attending evening lectures at the 
University of California with his sister. But for this 
form of mental exertion he had no taste, keenly as he 
applied himself to his work during the hours of business ; 
and he assured himself that such knowledge would do 
him no good anyway. It did not seem to be prevalent in 
society. If he had been a brilliant hand at bridge or 
poker, the inner fortifications of society would have gone 
down before him, but his courage did not run to card 
gambling with wealthy idlers who set their own pace. 
On the stock market he could step warily and no one the 
wiser. It would have horrified him to be called a piker, 
for his instincts were really lavish, and the economical 
habit an achievement in which he took a resentful pride. 
 
On this evening he had talked almost incessantly to 
Alexina, and she, in the vocabulary of her years find set, 
had thought him frantically interesting as he described 
the immediate command of the city assumed by General 
Funston, the efforts of the Committee of Fifty, formed 
early that morning by leading citizens, to help preserve 
order and to give assistance to the refugees; of rich 
young men, and middle-aged citizens who had not spent 
an afternoon away from their club window for ten years, 
carrying dynamite in their cars through the very flames ; 
of wild and terrible episodes he had witnessed or heard 
of during the day. 
His brain was hot from the mental and physical atmosphere of the perishing city, the unique excitement of 
the day : when he had felt as if snatched from his quiet 
pasture by the roots ; and by the extraordinary good fortune that had delivered this perfect girl and her formidable parent almost into his hands. Under his sternly 
controlled exterior his spirits sang wildly that his luck 
had turned, and dazzling visions of swift success and 
fulfillment of all ambitions snapped on and off in his 
stimulated brain. 
Alexina thought him not only immoderately fascinating in his appeal to her own imperious youth, but the 
most interesting life partner that a romantic maiden 
with secret intellectual promptings could demand. Her 
brilliant long eyes melted and flashed, her soft unformed 
mouth wore a constant alluring smile. 
A declaration trembled on his tongue, but he felt that 
he would be taking an unfair advantage and restrained 
himself. Besides, he wished to win Mrs. Groome completely to his side, to say nothing of the still more alarming because more worldly Mrs. Abbott. SJie was a snob, 
if you like ! 
At nine o'clock, after he had given the inmates of the 
house and outbuildings stern orders not to light a candle 
or lamp under any circumstances — such was the emergency law — he bade Alexina a gallant good-night, and 
betook himself to the lawn within the grove of sighing 
eucalyptus trees, to pace up and down, his rifle in his 
arm, his eyes alert, and quite aware of the admiring 
young princess at the casement above. 
He did his work very thoroughly, visiting outhouses 
at intervals and sharply inspecting the weary occupants, 
as well as the prostrate forms under the trees. They 
were all far too tired and apprehensive to dream of 
breaking into the house that had given them hospitality, 
even had they been villains, which they were not. 
But they did not resent his inspection; rather they 
felt a sense of security in this watching manly figure 
with the gun, for they were rather afraid of villains 
themselves: it was reported that many looters had been 
stood against hissing walls and shot by the stern orders 
of General Funston. They asked their more immediate 
protector questions as to the progress of the fire, which 
he answered curtly, as befitted his office. 
 
CHAPTBE VI 
ly/TES ABBOTT entered Alexina's room and caught 
her hanging out of the window. She had motored 
up to the city during the afternoon, and, after a vain 
attempt to persuade her mother to go down at once to 
Alta, had concluded to remain over night. The spectacle was the most horrifyingly interesting she had ever 
witnessed in her temperate life, and her self-denying 
Aunt Clara was in charge of the children. Her husband 
had driven himself to town as soon as he heard of the 
fire and been sworn in a member of the Committee of 
Fifty. 
' ' Darling, ' ' she said firmly to the sister who was little 
older than her first-born, "I want to have a talk with 
you. Come into papa's old dressing-room. I had a cot 
put there, and as there is no room for another I am quite 
alone. ' ' 
Alexina followed with lagging feet. She had always 
given her elder sister the same surface obedience that 
she gave her mother. It "saved trouble." But life had 
changed so since morning that she was in no mood to 
keep up the role of "little sister," sweet and malleable 
and innocent as a Ballinger-Groome at the age of 
eighteen should be. 
 
She dropped on the floor and embraced her knees with 
her arms. Mrs. Abbott seated herself in as dignified an 
attitude as was possible on the edge of the cot. Even 
the rocking-chairs had been taken down to the dining- 
room. 
"Well?" queried Alexina, pretending to stifle a yawn. 
""What is it? I am too sleepy to think." 
"Sleepy? You looked sleepy with your eyes like 
saucers watching that young man." 
"Everybody that can is watching the fire " 
 
"Don't quibble, Alexins. You are naturally a truthful child. Do you mean to tell me you were not watching Mr. Dwight ? " 
"Well, if I say yes, it is not because I care a hang 
about living up to my reputation, but because I don't 
care whether you know it or not. ' ' 
"That is very naughty " 
"Stop talking to me as if I were a child." 
"You are excited, darling, and no wonder." 
Maria Abbott was in the process of raising a family 
and she did it with tact and firmness. Nature had done 
much to assist her in her several difficult roles. She 
was very tall straight and slender, with a haughty little 
head, as perfect in shape as Alexina's, set well back on 
her shoulders, and what had been known in her Grandmother Ballinger's day as a eameo-profile. Her abundant fair hair added to the high calm of her mien and 
it was always arranged in the prevailing fashion. On 
the street she invariably wore the tailored suit, and her 
tailor was the best in New York. She thought blouses in 
public indecent, and wore shirtwaists of linen or silk 
with high collars, made by the same master-hand. There 
was nothing masculine in her appearance, but she prided 
herself upon being the best groomed woman even in that 
small circle of her city that dressed as well as the fashionable women of New York. At balls and receptions she 
wore gowns of an austere but expensive simplicity, and 
as the simple jewels of her inheritance looked pathetic 
beside the blazing necklaces and sunbursts (there were 
only two or three tiaras in San Francisco) of those new 
people whom she both deplored and envied, she wore 
none; and she was assured that the lack added to the 
distinction of her appearance. 
But although she felt it almost a religious duty to be 
smart, determined as she was that the plutocracy should 
never, while she was alive, push the aristocracy through 
the wall and out of sight, she was a strict eonformer to 
the old tradition that had looked upon all arts to enhance 
and preserve youth as the converse of respectable. Her 
once delicate pink and white skin was wrinkled and 
weather-beaten, her nose had never known powder; but 
 
even in the glare of the fire her skin looked cool and pale, 
for the heat had not crimsoned her. Her blood was 
rather thin and she prided herself upon the fact. She 
may have lost her early beauty, but she looked the indubitable aristocrat, the lady bom, as her more naive 
grandmothers would have phrased it. 
It sufficed. 
By those that did not have the privilege of her intimate acquaintance she was called ' ' stuck-up, " " a snob, ' ' 
a mid-victor ian who ought to dress like her more consistent mother, "rather a fool, if the truth were known,' 
no doubt." 
In reality she was a tender-hearted and anxious 
mother, daughter, and sister, and an impeccable wife, if 
a somewhat monotonous one. At all events her husband 
never found fault with her in public or private. He had 
his reasons. To the friends of her youth and to all 
members of her own old set, she was intensely loyal ; and 
although she had a cold contempt for the institution of 
divorce, if one of that select band strayed into it, no 
matter at which end, her loyalty rose triumpha,nt above 
her social code, and she was not afraid to express it 
publicly. 
Toward Alexina she felt less a sister than a second 
mother, and gave her freely of her abundant maternal 
reservoir. That "little sister" had at times sulked 
under this proud determination to assist in the bringing- 
up of the last of the Ballinger-Groomes, did not discourage her. She might be soft in her affections but she 
never swerved from her duty as she saw it. Alexina 
was a darling wayward child, who only needed a firm 
hand to guide her along that proud secluded old avenue 
of the city's elect, until she had ambled safely to established respectability and power. I 
She had been alarmed at one time at certain symptoms of cleverness she noticed in the child, and at certain enthusiastic remarks in the letters of Ballinger 
Groome, with whose family Alexina had spent her vacations during her two years in New York at school. But 
 
there had been no evidence of anything but a young 
girl 's natural love of pleasure since her debut in society, 
and she was quite unaware of Alexina's wicked divagations. She had spent the winter in Santa Barbara, for 
the benefit of her oldest boy, whose lungs were delicate, 
and, like her mother, never deigned to read the society 
columns of the newspapers. Her reason, however, was 
her own. In spite of her blood, her indisputable position, her style, she cut but a small figure in those columns. She was not rich enough to vie with those who 
entertained constantly, and was merely set down as one 
of many guests. The fact induced a slight bitterness. 
IV 
She began tactfully. "I like this young Mr. Dwight 
very much, and shall ask him down, as mother desires it. 
But I hope, darling, that you will follow my example 
and not marry until you have had four years of society, 
in other words have seen something of the world " 
"California is not the world." 
' ' Society, in other words human nature, is everywhere 
much alike. As you know, I spent a year in England 
when I was a young lady, and was presented at court — 
by Lady Barnstable, who was Lee Tarlton, one of us. 
It was merely San Francisco on a large scale, with titles, 
and greater and older houses and parks, and more jewels, 
and more arrogance, and everything much grander, of 
course. And they talked politics a great deal, which 
bored me as I am sure they would bore you. The beauty 
of our society is its simplicity and lack of arrogance — 
consciousness of birth or of wealth. Even the more 
recent members of society, who owe their position to 
their fortunes, have a simplicity and kindness quite 
unknown in New York. Eastern people always remark 
it. And yet, owing to their constant visits to the East 
and to Europe, they know all of the world there is to 
know. ' ' 
"So do the young men, I suppose ! I never heard of 
their doing much traveling " 
"I should call them remarkably sophisticated young 
 
men. But the point is, darling, that if you wait as long 
as I did you will discover that the men who attract a 
girl in her first season would bore her to extinction in 
her fourth." 
"You mean after I've had all the bloom rubbed off, 
and men are forgetting to ask me to dance. Then I'll 
be much more likely to take what I can get. I want to 
marry with all the bloom on and all my illusions fresh." 
' ' But should you like to have them rubbed off by your 
husband? You've heard the old adage: 'marry in haste 
and repent ' " 
"I've been brought up on adages. They are called 
bromides now. As for illusions, everybody says they 
don't last anyway. I'd rather have them dispelled after 
a long wonderful honeymoon by a husband than by a lot 
of flirtations in a conservatory and in dark comers " 
"Good heavens! Do you suppose that I flirted in a 
conservatory and in dark corners?" 
"I'll bet you didn't, but lots do. And in the haute 
noblesse, the ancient aristocracy ! I 've seen 'em. ' ' 
"It isn't possible that you " 
' ' Oh, no, I love to dance too much. But I 'm not easily 
shocked. I'll tell you that right here. And I'll tell you 
what I confessed to mother this morning." 
"When she had finished Mrs. Abbott sat for a few moments petrified; but she was thirty-eight, not sixty-five, 
and there was neither dismay nor softening in her narrowed light blue eyes. 
' ' But that is abominable ! Abominable ! ' ' 
And Alexina, who was prepared for a scolding, shrank 
a little, for it was the first time that her doting sister 
had spoken to her with severity. 
"I don't care," she said stubbornly, and she set her 
soft lips until they looked stern and hard. 
' ' But you must care. You are a Groome. ' ' 
"Oh, yes, and a Ballinger, and a Geary, and all the 
rest of it. But I 'm also going to annex another name of 
 
my own choosing. I'll marry whom I damn please, and 
that is the end of it." 
' ' Alexina Groome ! ' ' Mrs. Abbott arose in her wrath. 
"Cannot you see for yourself what association with all 
these common people has done to you? It's the influence " 
"Of two years in New York principally. The girls 
there are as hard as nails — try to imitate the English. 
Ours are not a patch, not even Aileen, although she does 
her best. But I hadn't finished — I even powder my 
face. ' ' Alexina grinned up at her still rudderless sister. 
"After mother is asleep and I am ready to slip out." 
' ' I thought you were safe in New York under the eyes 
of Ballinger and Geary, or rather of Mattie and Charlotte. They are such earnest good women, so interested 
in charities " 
' ' Deadly. But you don 't know the girls. ' ' 
"And I have told mother again and again that she 
should not permit you to associate with Aileen Lawton." 
"She can't help herself. Aileen is one of us. Besides, mother is devoted to the Judge." 
"But powder! None of us has ever put anything but 
clean cold water on her face." 
"You'd look a long sight better if you did. Cold 
cream, too. You wouldn't have any wrinkles at your 
age, if you weren't so damn respectable — aristocratic, 
you call it. It's just middle class. And as out of date 
as speech without slang. As for me, I'd paint my lips 
as Aileen does, only I don't like the taste, and they're 
too red, anyhow. It's much smarter to make up than 
not to. Times change. You don't wear hoopskirts because our magnificent Grandmother Ballinger did. You 
dress as smartly as the Burlingame crowd. "Why does 
your soul turn green at make-up ? All these people you 
look down upon because our families were rich and 
important in the fifties are more up-to-date than you 
are, although I will admit that none of them has the 
woman-of-the-world air of the smartest New York women 
— not that terribly respectable inner set in New York — 
Aunt Mattie 's and Aunt Charlotte's — that just revels 
in looking mid- Victorian. . . . The newer people I 've met 
 
here — their manners are just as good as ours, if not 
better, for, as you said just now, they don't put on airs. 
You do, darling. You don't know it, but you would put 
an English duchess to the blush, when you suddenly 
remember who you are " 
Mrs. Abbott had resumed her seat on the cot. "If you 
have finished criticizing your elder sister, I should like 
to ask you a few questions. Do you smoke and drink 
cocktails?" 
"No, I don't. But I should if I liked them, and if 
they didn't make me feel queer." 
"You — you " Mrs. Abbot's clear crisp voice sank 
to an agonized whisper. For the first time she was really 
terrified. "Do you gamble?" 
"Why, of course not. I have too much fun to think 
of anything so stupid. ' ' 
"Does Aileen Lawton gamble?" 
"She just doesn't, and don't you insinuate such a thing." 
"She has bad blood in her. Her mother " 
"I thought her mother was your best friend." 
"She was. But she went to pieces, poor dear, and 
Judge Lawton wisely sent her East. I can't tell you 
why. There are things you don't understand." 
' ' Oh, don 't I ? Don 't you fool yourself. ' ' 
Mrs. Abbott leaned back on the cot and pressed it 
hard with either hand. 
"Alexina, I have never been as disturbed as I am at 
this moment. When Sally and I were your age, we were 
beautifully innocent. If I thought that Joan " 
"Oh, Joan'll get away from you. She's only fourteen 
now, but when she 's my age — well, I guess you and your 
old crowd are the last of the Mohicans. I doubt if 
there'll even be any chaperons left. Joan may not smoke 
nor drink. Who cares for 'vices,' anyhow? But you 
haven't got a moat and drawbridge round Eincona, and 
she'll just get out and mix. She'll float with the stream 
— and all streams lead to Burlingame." 
"I have no fear about Joan," said Mrs. Abbott, with 
dignity. "Pour years are a long time. I shall sow 
seeds, and she is a born Ballinger — I am dreadfully 
afraid that my dear father is coming out in you. Even 
the boys are Ballingers " 
VI 
"Tell me about father?" coaxed Alexina, who was 
repentant, now that the excitement of the day had 
reached its climax in the baiting of her admirable sister 
and was rapidly subsiding. "Mother let fall something 
this morning ; and once Aileen . . . she began, but shut 
up like a clam. Was he so very dreadful ? " 
"Well, since you know so much, he was what is called 
fast. Married men of his position often were in his day 
 — quite openly. Yesterday, I should have hesitated " 
"Fire away. Don't mind me. Yes, I know what fast 
is. Lots of men are to-day. Even members of the 
A. A." 
"A. A.?" 
"Ancient Aristocracy. The kind England and France 
would like to have." 
"I'm ashamed of you. Have you no pride of blood? 
The best blood of the South, to say nothing of " 
" I 'm tickled to death. I just dote on being a Groome, 
plus Ballinger, plus. And I 'm not guying, neither. I 'd 
hate like the mischief to be second rate, no matter what 
I won later. It must be awful to have to try to get to 
places that should be yours by divine right, as it were. 
But all that's no reason for being a moss-back, a back 
number, for not having any fun — to be glued to the 
ancestral rock like a lot of old limpets. . . . And it 
should preserve us from being snobs," she added. 
"Snobs?" 
"The 'I will maintain' sort, as Aileen puts it." 
"Don't quote that dreadful child to me. I haven't 
an atom of snobbery in my composition. I reserve the 
right to know whom I please, and to exclude from my 
house people to whom I cannot accustom myself. Why 
I know quite a number of people at Burlingame. I 
dined there informally last night." 
"Yes, because it has the fascination for you that wine 
has for the clergyman's son." Alexina once more yielded 
 
to temptation. "But the only people you really know 
at Burlingame except Mrs. Hunter are those of the old 
set, what you would call the pick of the bunch, if you 
were one of us. They went there to live because they 
were tired of being moss-backs. Why don't you follow 
their example and go the whole hog? They — and their 
girls — have a ripping time." 
"At least they have not picked up your vocabulary. 
I seldom see the young people. And I have never been 
to the Club. I am told the women drink and smoke 
quite openly on the verandah. ' ' 
"You may bet your sweet life they do. They are 
honest, and quite as sure of their position as you are. 
But tell me about father. How did mother come to 
marry him ? If he was such a naughty person I should 
think she would have exercised the sound Ballinger instincts and thrown him down." 
"Mother met him in Washington. Grandfather Ballinger was senator at the time " 
"From Virginia or California?" 
"It is shocking that you do not know more of the 
family history. From California, of course. He had 
great gifts and political aspirations, and realized that 
there would be more opportunity in the new state — 
particularly in such a famous one — than in his own 
where all the men in public life seemed to have taken 
root — I remember his using that expression. So, he 
came here with his bride, the beauty of Richmond " 
"Oh, Lord, I know all about her. Remember the 
flavor in my mother's milk " 
"Well, you'd look like her if you had brown eyes and 
a white skin, and if your mouth were smaller. And 
until you learn to stand up straight you'll never have 
anything like her elegance of carriage. However. . . . 
Of course they had plenty of money — for those days. 
They had come to Virginia in the days of Queen Elizabeth and received a large grant of land " 
"Don't fancy I haven't heard that.'" 
"Grandfather had inherited the plantation " 
' ' Sold his slaves, I suppose, to come to California and 
realize his ambitions. Funny, how ideals change ! ' ' 
 
"His abilities were recognized as soon as he arrived 
in the new community, ajid our wonderful grandmother 
became at once one of that small band of social leaders 
that founded San Francisco society : Mrs. Hunt McLane, 
the Hathaways, Mrs. Don Pedro Earle, the Montgomerys, the Gearys, the Talbots, the Belmonts, Mrs. Abbott, 
Tom's grandmother " 
"Never mind about them. I have them dished up 
occasionally by mother, although she prefers to des'eant 
upon the immortal eighties, when she was a leader herself and 'money wasn't everything.' We never had so 
much of it anyhow. I know Grandfather Ballinger bought 
this ramshackle old house -" 
Mrs. Abbott sat forward and drew herself up. She felt 
as if she were talking to a stranger, as, indeed, she was. 
"This house and its traditions are sacred " 
"I know it. You were telling me how mother came 
to marry a bad fast man. ' ' 
' ' He was not fast when she met him. It was at a ball 
in "Washington. He was a young congressman — he was 
wounded in his right arm during the first year of the 
war and returned at once to California ; of course he had 
been one of the first to enlist. He was of a fine old 
family and by no means poor. Of course in Washington 
he was asked to the best houses. At that time he was 
very ambitious and absorbed in polities and the advancement of California. Afterward he renounced Washing- 
ton for reasons I never clearly understood ; although he 
told me once that California was the only place for a 
man to live; and — well — I am afraid he could do more 
as he pleased out here without criticism — from men, at 
least. The standards — for men — were very low in those 
days. But when he met mother " 
' ' Was mother ever very pretty ? ' ' 
' ' She was handsome, ' ' replied Mrs. Abbott guardedly. 
"Of course she had the freshness and roundness of 
youth. I am told she had a lovely color and the brightest eyes. And she had a beautiful figure. She had 
several proposals, but she chose father." 
' ' And had the devil 's own time with him. She let out 
that much this morning. ' ' 
 
"I am growing accustomed to your language." Once 
more Mrs. Abbott was determined to be amiable and 
tactful. She realized that the child's brain was seething 
with the excitements of the day, but was aghast at the 
revelations it had recklessly tossed out, and admitted 
tha,t the problem of "handling her" could no longer be 
disposed of with home-made generalities. 
"Tes, mother did not have a bed of roses. Father 
was mayor at one time and held various other public 
offices, and no one, at least, ever accused him of civic 
corruptness. Quite the contrary. The city owes more 
than one reform to his determination and ability. 
"He even risked his life fighting the bosses and their 
political gangs, for he was shot at twice. But he was 
very popular in his own class; what men call a good 
fellow, and at that time there was quite a brilliant group 
of disreputable women here ; one could not help hearing 
things, for the married women here have always been 
great gossips. "Well — you may as well know it — it may 
have the same efEect on you that it did on Ballinger and 
Geary, who are the most abstemious of men — he drank 
and gambled and had too much to do with those unspeakable women. . . . 
"Nevertheless, he made a great deal of money for a 
long time, and if he hadn't gambled (not only in 
gambling houses and in private but in stocks) , he would 
have left a large fortune. As it is, poor darling, you 
will only have this house and about six thousand a year. 
Father was quite well off when Sally and I married and 
Ballinger and Geary went to New York after marrying 
the Lyman girls, who were such belles out here when 
they paid us a visit in the nineties. They had money of 
their own and father gave the boys a hundred thousand 
each. He gave the same to Sally and me when we married. But when you came along, or rather when you 
were ten, and he died — well, he had run through nearly 
everything, and had lost his grip. Mother got her share 
of the community property, and of course she had this 
house and her share of the Ballinger estate — not very 
much." 
 
"Why didn't mother keep father at home and make 
him behave himself ? ' ' 
"Mother did everything a good woman could do." 
"Maybe she was too good." 
' ' You abominable child. A woman can 't be too good. ' ' 
"Perhaps not. But I fancy she can make a man 
think so. When he has different tastes." 
"Women are as they are bom. My mother would not 
have condescended to lower herself to the level of those 
creatures who fascinated my father." 
"Well, I wouldn't, neither. I'd just light out and 
leave him. Why didn't mother get a divorce?" 
"A divorce? Why, she has never received any one 
in her house who has been divorced. Neither have I 
except in one or two eases where very dear friends had 
been forced by circumstances into the divorce court. 
I didn't approve even then. People should wash their 
dirty linen at home." 
"Time moves, as I remarked just now. Nothing 
would stop me; if, for instance, I had been persuaded 
into marrying a member of the A. A. and he was in the 
way of ruining my young life. You should be thankful 
if I did decide to marry Mr. Dwight — mind, I don't say 
I care the tip of my little finger for him. I barely know 
him. But if I did you would have to admit that I was 
following the best Ballinger instincts, for he doesn't 
drink, or dissipate in any way; and everybody says he 
works hard and is as steady as — I was going to say as a 
judge, but I've been told that all judges, in this town 
at least, are not as steady as you think. Anyhow, he is. 
His family is as old as ours, even if it did have reverses 
or something. And you can't deny that he is a gentleman, every inch of him." 
"I do not deny that he has a very good appearance 
indeed. But — well, he was brought up in San Francisco 
and no one ever heard of his parents. He admitted to 
me at the table that his father was only a clerk in a 
broker's office. He is not one of us and that is the end 
of it." 
 
"Why not make him one? Quite easy. And you 
ought to rejoice in what power you have left." 
She rose and stretched and yawned in a most unlady- 
like fashion. 
"I'm going to make a cup of coffee for our sentinel, 
and have a little chat with him, chaperoned by the great 
bonfire. Don't think you can stop me, for you can't. 
Heavens, what a noise that dynamite does make! We 
shall have to shout. It will be more than proper. Good 
night, darling." 
CHAPTER VII 
DORA D WIGHT with a quick turn of a strong and 
supple wrist flung a folding chair up through the 
trap door of the roof. She followed with a pitcher of 
water, opened the chair, and sat down. 
It was the second day of the fire, which was now 
raging in the valleys north of Market Street and up the 
hills. It was still some distance from all but the lower 
end of Van Ness Avenue, the wide street that divides 
the eastern and western sections of the city, as Market 
Street divides the northern and southern, and her own 
home on Geary Street was beyond Franklin and safe for 
the present. It was expected that the fire would be 
halted by dynamiting the blocks east of the avenue, but 
as it had already leapt across not far from Market Street 
and was running out toward the Mission, Gora pinned 
her faith in nothing less than a change of wind. 
Life has many disparate schools. The one attended 
by Miss Gora Dwight had taught her to hope for the 
best, prepare for the worst, and be thankful if she 
escaped (to use the homely phrase; one rarely found 
leisure for originality in this particular school) by the 
skin of her teeth. 
Gora fully expected to lose the house she sat on, and 
had packed what few valuables she possessed in two 
 
large bags: the fine underclothes she had made at odd 
moments, and a handsome set of toilet articles her 
brother had given her on the Christmas before last. He 
had had a raise of salary and her experiment with 
lodgers had proved even more successful than she had 
dared to hope. On the following Christmas he had given 
her a large book with a fancy binding (which she had 
exchanged for something she could read). After satisfying the requirements of a wardrobe suitable for the 
world of fashion, supplemented by the usual toll of 
flowers and bon-bons, he had little surplus for domestic 
presents. 
Gora's craving for drama was far deeper and more 
significant than young Alexina Groome's, and she determined to watch until the last moment the terrific spectacle of the burning city. The wind had carried the 
smoke upward for a mUe or more and pillars of fire supported it at such irregular intervals that it looked like 
a vast infernal temple in which demons were waging 
war, and undermining the roof in their senseless fury. 
In some places whole blocks of houses were blazing; 
here and there high buildings burned in solitary 
grandeur, the flames leaping from every window or boiling from the roof. Sometimes one of these buildings 
would disappear in a shower of sparks and an awful 
roar, or a row of humbler houses was lifted bodily from 
the ground to burst into a thousand particles of flying 
wood, and disappear. 
The heat was overpowering (she bathed her face con- 
stantly from the pitcher) and the roar of the flames, the 
constant explosions of dynamite, the loud vicious 
crackling of wood, the rending and splitting of masonry, 
the hoarse impact of walls as they met the earth, was the 
scene's wild orchestral accompaniment and, despite underlying apprehension and horror, gave Gora one of 
the few pleasurable sensations of her life. 
But she moved her chair after a moment and fixed her 
gaze, no longer rapt but ironic, on the flaming hillcrests, 
the long line of California Street, nucleus of the wealth 
and fashion of San Francisco. The Western Addition 
was fashionable and growing more so, but it had been 
 
too far away for the pioneers of the fifties and sixties, 
the bonanza kings of the seventies, the railroad magnates 
of the eighties, and they had built their huge and hideous 
mansions upon the hill that rose almost perpendicularly 
above the section where they made and lost their millions. 
Some wag or toady had named it Nob Hill and the inhabitants had complacently accepted the title, although 
they refrained from putting it on their cards. 
And now it was in flames. 
Gora recalled the day when she had walked slowly 
past those mansions, staring at each in turn as she assimilated the disheartening and infuriating fact that she and 
the children that inhabited them belonged to different 
worlds. 
Her family at that time lived in a cottage at the 
wrong end of Taylor Street Hill, and, Mrs. Dwight having received a small legacy from a sister recently deceased which had convinced her, if not her less mer- 
curial husband, that their luck had finally turned, had 
sent Gora, then a rangy girl of thirteen, fond of books 
and study, to a large private school in the fashionable 
district. 
Gora, after all these years, ground her teeth as she 
had a sudden blighting vision of the day a week later, 
when, puzzled and resentful, she had walked up the 
steep hill with several of the girls whose homes were on 
California and Taylor Streets, and two of whom, like 
herself, were munching an apple. 
They had hardly noticed her sufficiently to ignore her, 
either then or during the previous week, so absorbed 
were they in their own close common interests. She 
listened to allusions which she barely could comprehend, 
but it was evident that one was to give a party 
on Friday night and the others were expected as a 
matter of course. Gora assumed that Jim and Sam and 
Kex and Bob were brothers or beaux. Last names appeared to be no more necessary than labels to inform the 
outsider of the social status of these favored maidens, 
 
too happy and contented to be snobs but quite callous to 
the feelings of strange little girls.  
They drifted one by one into their opulent homes, 
bidding one another a careless or a sentimental good-by, 
and Gora, throwing her head as far back on her shoulders as it would go without dislocation, stalked down to 
the unfashionable end of Taylor Street and up to the 
solitude of her bedroom under the eaves of the cottage. 
On the following day she had lingered in the school 
yard until the other girls were out of sight, then climbing the almost perpendicular hill so rapidly that she 
arrived on the crest with little breath and a pain in her 
side, she had sauntered deliberately up and down before 
the imposing homes of her schoolmates, staring at them 
with angry and puzzled eyes, her young soul in tumult. 
It was the old inarticulate cry of class, of the unchosen 
who seeks the reason and can find none. 
As she had a tendency not only to brood but to work 
out her own problems it was several days before she 
demanded an explanation of her mother. 
Mrs. Dwight, a prematurely gray and wrinkled woman, 
who had once been handsome with good features and 
bright coloring, and who wore a deliberately cheerful 
expression that Gora often wanted to wipe off, was sitting in the dining-room making a skirt for her daughter ; 
which, Gora reflected bitterly, was sure to be too long on 
one side if not in front. 
Mrs. Dwight 's smile faded as she looked at the somber 
face and huddled figure in the worn leather arm-chair 
in which Mr. Dwight spent his silent evenings. 
' ' "Why, my dear, you surely knew long before this that 
some people are rich and others poor — to say nothing of 
the betwixts and betweens." She was an exact woman 
in small matters. "That's all there is to it. I thought 
it a good idea to send you to a private school where you 
might make friends among girls of your own class. ' ' 
"Own class? They treat me like dirt. How am I of 
their class when they live in palaces and I in a hovel ? ' ' 
 
"I have reproved you many times for exaggerated 
speech. What I meant was that you are as well-born as 
any of them (better than many) only we have been 
unfortunate. Your father tried hard enough, but he 
just doesn't seem to have the money-making faculty like 
so many men. Now, we've had a little luck I'm really 
hopeful. I've just had a nice letter from your Aunt 
Eliza Goring — I named you for her, but I couldn't inflict you with Eliza. You know she is many years older 
than I am and has no children. She was out here once 
just before you were born. We — we were very hard up 
indeed. It was she who furnished this cottage for us 
and paid a year's rent. Soon after, your father got his 
present position ajid we have managed to get along. 
She always sends me a little cheque at Christmas and 
I am sure — well, there are some things we don't say. 
. . . But this legacy from your Aunt Jane is the only 
real stroke of luck we ever had, and I can 't help feeling 
hopeful. I do believe better times are coming. ... It 
used to seem terribly hard and unjust that so many 
people all about us had so much and we nothing, and 
that in this comparatively small city we knew practically 
no one. But I have got over being bitter and envious. 
You do when you are busy every minute. And then we 
have the blessing of health, and Mortimer is the best 
boy in the world, and you are a very good child when 
you are not in a bad temper. I think you will be handsome, too, although you are pretty hopeless at present; 
but of course you will never have anything like Mortimer's looks. He is the living image of the painting of 
your Great-great-great-grandfather Dwight that used to 
hang in the dining-room in Utica, and who was in the 
first Congress. Now, do try and make friends with the 
nicer of the children." 
But Gora's was not a conciliating nor a compromising 
nature. Her idea of "squaring things" was to become 
the best scholar in her classes and humiliate several 
young ladies of her own age who had held the first position with an ease that had bred laxity. Greatly to the 
satisfaction of the teachers an angry emulation ensued 
with the gratifying result that although the girls could 
 
not pass Gora, their weekly marks were higher, and for 
the rest of the term they did less giggling even after 
school hours, and more studying. 
But Gora would not return for a second term. She 
had made no friends among the girls, although, no 
doubt, having won their respect, they would, with the 
democracy of childhood, have admitted her to intimacy 
by degrees, particularly if she had proved to be socially 
malleable. 
But for some obscure reason it made Gora happier to 
hate them all, and when she had passed her examina- 
tions victoriously, and taken every prize, except for tidiness and deportment, she said good-by with some regret 
to the teachers, who had admired and encouraged her 
but did not pretend to love her, and announced as soon 
as she arrived at home that she should enter the High 
School at the beginning of the following term. 
IV 
Her parents were secretly relieved. Even Mrs. 
Dwight's vision of future prosperity had faded. She 
had been justified in believing that her sister Eliza would 
make a will in favor of her family, but unfortunately 
Mrs. Goring had amused herself with speculation in her 
old age, and had left barely enough to pay her funeral 
expenses. 
Mrs. D wight broached the subject of their immediate 
future to her husband that evening. She had some time 
since made up her mind, in case the school experiment 
was not a success, to furnish a larger house with what 
remained of the legacy, and take boarders. 
"I wouldn't do it if Gora had made the friends I 
hoped for her, ' ' she said, turning the heel of the first of 
her son's winter socks, "and there's no such thing as a 
social come-down for us; for that matter, there is more 
than one lady, once wealthy, who is keeping a boarding- 
house in this town. Gora will have to work anyhow, and 
as for Mortimer — -" she glanced fondly at her manly 
young son, who was amiably playing checkers in the 
parlor with his sister, "he is sure to make his fortune." 
 
"I don't know," said Mr. D wight heavily. "I don't 
know. ' ' 
"Why, what do you mean?" asked his wife sharply. 
Mrs. Dwight belonged to that type of American women 
whose passions in youth are weak and ansemie, not to 
say exceedingly shame-faced, but which in mature years 
become strong ajid selfish ajid jealous, either for a lover 
or a son. Mrs. Dwight, being a perfectly respectable 
woman, had centered all the accumulated forces of her 
being on the son whom she idealized after the fashion 
of her type ; and as she had corrected his obvious faults 
when he was a boy, it was quite true that he was kind, 
amiable, honest, honorable, patriotic, industrious, clean, 
polite, and moral; if hardly as handsome as Apollo or 
as brilliant and gifted as she permitted herself to believe. 
"What do you mean?" she repeated, although she 
lowered her voice. It was rarely that it assumed an 
edge when addressing her husband. She had never reproached him for being a failure, for she had recognized his limitations early and accepted her lot. But 
something in his tone shook her maternal complacence 
and roused her to instant defense. 
Mr. Dwight took his pipe from his mouth and also 
cast a glance toward the parlor, but the absorbed players 
were beyond the range of his rather weak voice. 
"I mean this," he said with nothing of his usual 
vale hesitancy of speech. "I'm not so sure that Morty 
