use as foundation-stones in the structure of our civilization.
By this method of research man is expanding his universe beyond anything
that could have been conceived in the pre-scientific days. Hour by hour,
while we work and play and sleep, the mind of our race is discovering
new worlds in which our posterity will dwell. For uncounted ages man
walked upon the earth, surrounded by infinite swarms of bacterial life
of whose existence he never dreamed. The invisible rays of the spectrum
beat upon him, and he knew nothing of what they did to him, whether good
or evil. He lifted his head and saw vast universes of suns, in
comparison with which his world was a mere speck of dust; yet to him
these universes were globes or lanterns which some divinity had hung in
the sky.
One of the most fascinating illustrations of how the mind runs ahead of
the senses is the story of the planet Uranus, which, less than two
hundred years ago, had never been beheld by the eye of man. A
mathematician seated in his study, working over the observations of
other planets, their motions in relation to their mass and distance,
discovered that their behavior was not as it should be. At certain times
none of them were in quite the right place, and he decided that this
variation must be due to the existence of an unknown body. He worked out
the problem of what must be the mass and the exact orbit of this body,
in order for it to be responsible for the variations observed; and when
he had completed these calculations, he announced to the astronomical
world, "Turn your telescopes to a certain spot in the heavens at a
certain minute of a certain night, and you will find a new planet of a
certain size." And so for the first time the human senses became aware
of a fact, which by themselves they might not have discovered in all
eternity.
Now, the importance of exact knowledge concerning a new planet may not
be apparent to the ordinary man; but if the thing which is discovered
is, for example, an unknown ray which will move an engine or destroy a
cancer, then we realize the worthwhileness of research, and the masters
of the world's commerce are willing to give here and there a pittance
for the increase of such knowledge. But men of science, who have by this
time come to a sense of their own dignity and importance, understand
that there is no knowledge about reality which is useless, no research
into nature which is wasted. You might say that to describe and classify
the fleas which inhabit the bodies of rats and ground-squirrels, and to
study under the microscope the bacteria which live in the blood of these
fleas--that this would be an occupation hardly worthy of the divinity
that is in man. But presently, as a result of this knowledge about fleas
and flea diseases being in existence and available, a bacteriologist
discovers the secret of the dread bubonic plague, which hundreds of
times in past history has wiped out a great part of the population of
Europe and Asia.
Mark Twain tells in his "Connecticut Yankee" how his hero was able to
overcome the wizard Merlin, because he knew in advance of an eclipse of
the sun. And this was fiction, of course; but if you prefer fact, you
may read in the memoirs of Houdin, the French conjurer, how he was able
to bring the Arab tribes into subjection to the French government by
depriving the great chieftains of their strength. He gathered them into
a theatre, and invited their mighty men upon the stage, and there was an
iron weight, and they were able to lift it when Houdin permitted, and
not to lift it when he forbade. These noble barbarians had never heard
of the electro-magnet, and could not conceive of a force that could
operate through a solid wooden floor beneath their feet.
Such things, trivial as they are, serve to illustrate the difference
between ignorance and knowledge, and the power which knowledge gives.
The man who knows is godlike to those who do not know; he may enslave
them, he may do what he pleases with their lives, and they are powerless
to help themselves. Anyone who would help them must begin by giving them
knowledge, real knowledge. There is no such thing as freedom without
knowledge, and it must be the best knowledge, it must be new knowledge;
he who goes against new knowledge armed with old knowledge is like the
Chinese who went out to meet machine-guns with bows and arrows, and with
umbrellas over their heads.
Once upon a time knowledge was the prerogative of kings and priests and
ruling castes; but this supreme power has been wrested from them, and
this is the greatest step in human progress so far taken. "Seek and ye
shall find," is the law concerning knowledge today. "Knock, and it shall
be opened unto you." In this, my Book of the Mind, I say to you that
knowledge is your priceless birthright, and that you should repudiate
all men and all institutions and all creeds and all formulas which seek
to keep this heritage from you. Beware of men who bid you believe
something because it is told you, or because your fathers believed it,
or because it is written in some ancient book, or embodied in some
ancient ceremonial. Break the chains of these venerable spells; and at
the same time beware of the modern spells which have been contrived to
replace them! Beware of party cries and shibboleths, the idols of the
forum, as Plato called them, the prejudices which are set as snares for
your feet. Beware of cant--that paraphernalia of noble sentiments,
artificially manufactured by politicians and newspapers for the purpose
of blinding you to their knaveries. Remember that you live in a world of
class conflicts; at every moment of your life your mind is besieged by
secret enemies, it is exposed to poison gas-clouds deliberately released
by people who seek to make use of you for purposes which are theirs and
not yours. In the fairy-tales we used to love, the hero was provided
with magic protection against the perils of those times; but what hero
and what magic will guard the modern man against the propaganda of
militarism, nationalism, and capitalist imperialism?
The mind is like the body in that it can be trained, it can be taught
sound habits, its powers can be enormously increased. There are many
books on mind and memory training, some of which are useful, and some of
which are trash. There is an English system widely advertised, called
"Pelmanism," of which I have personally made no test, but it has won
endorsements of a great many people who do not give their endorsements
lightly.
This is the subject of applied psychology, and just as in medicine, or
in law, or in any of the arts, there is a vast amount of charlatanry,
but there is also genuine knowledge being patiently accumulated and
standardized. When the United States government had to have an army in a
hurry it did not make its millions of young men into teamsters or
aviators at random. It used the new methods of determining reaction
times, and testing the coordination of mind and body. Recently I visited
the Whittier Reform School in California, where delinquent boys are
educated by the state. A boy had been set to work in the tailor shop,
and it had been found that he was unable to make the buttons and the
buttonholes of a coat come in the right place. For nine years the state
of California, and before it the state of Georgia, had been laboring to
teach this boy to make buttons and buttonholes meet; the effort had cost
some five thousand dollars, to say nothing of all the coats which were
spoiled, and all the mental suffering of the victim and his teachers.
Finally someone persuaded the state of California to spend a few
thousand dollars and install a psychological bureau for the purpose of
testing all the inmates of the institution; so by a half hour's
examination the fact was developed that this boy was mentally defective.
Although he was eighteen years old in body, his mind was only eight
years old, and so he would never be able to achieve the feat of making
buttons and buttonholes meet.
This is a new science which you may read about in Terman's "The
Measurement of Intelligence." By testing normal children, it is
established that certain tasks can be performed at certain ages. A child
of three can point to his eyes, his nose and his mouth; he can repeat a
sentence of six syllables, and repeat two digits, and give his family
name. Older children are asked to look at a picture and then tell what
they saw; to note omissions in a picture, to arrange blocks according to
their weight, to arrange words into sentences, to note absurdities in
statements, to count backwards, and to make change. Children of fifteen
are asked to interpret fables, to reverse the hands of a clock, and so
on. Of course there are always variations; every child will be better at
some kinds of tests than at others. But by having a wide variety, and
taking the average, you establish a "mental age" for the child--which
may be widely different from its physical age. You may find some whose
minds have stopped growing altogether, and can only be made to grow by
special methods of education. Enlightened communities are now conducting
separate schools for defective children--replacing the old-fashioned
schoolmaster who wore out birch-rods trying to force poor little
wretches to learn what was beyond their power.
In the same way psychology can be applied in industry, and in the
detection of crime. Here, too, there is a vast amount of "fake," but
also the beginning of a science. Our laws do not as yet permit the use
of automatic writing and the hypnotic trance in the investigation of
crime, but they have sometimes permitted some of the simpler tests, for
example, those of memory association. The examiner prepares a list of a
hundred names of objects, and reads those names one after another, and
asks the person he is investigating to name the first thing which is
suggested to him by each word in turn. "Engine" will suggest "steam," or
perhaps it will suggest "train"; "coat" will suggest "trousers," or
perhaps it will suggest "pocket," and so on. The examiner holds a
stop-watch, and notes what fraction of a second each one of these
reactions takes. The ordinary man, who is not trying to conceal
anything, will give all his associations promptly, and the reaction
times will be approximately alike. But suppose the man has just murdered
somebody with an axe, and buried the body in a cellar with a fire
shovel, and taken a pocketbook, and a watch, and a locket, and a number
of various objects, and climbed out of the cellar window by breaking the
glass; and now suppose that in his list of a hundred objects the
psychologist introduces unexpectedly a number of these things. In each
case the first memory association of the criminal will be one which he
does not wish to give. He will have to find another, and that inevitably
takes time. One or two such delays might be accidental; but if every
time there is any suggestion of the murder, or the method or scene of
the murder, there is noticed confusion and delay, you may be sure that
the conscious mind is interfering with the subconscious mind. The
difference between the conscious and the subconscious mind is always
possible to detect, and if you are permitted to be thorough in your
experiments, you can make certain what is in the subconscious mind that
the conscious mind is trying to conceal.
Here, as everywhere in life, knowledge is power, and expert knowledge
confers mastery over the shrewdest untrained mind. The only trouble is
that under our present social system the trained mind is very apt to be
working in the interest of class privilege. The psychologist who is
employed by a great corporation, or by a police department, may be as
little worthy of trust as a chemist who is engaged in making poison
gases to be used by capitalist imperialism for the extermination of its
rebellious slaves. But what this proves is not that scientific knowledge
is untrustworthy, but merely that the workers must acquire it, they must
have their own organizations and their own experiments in every field.
To give knowledge to the masses of mankind, slow and painful as the
process seems, is now the most important task confronting the
enlightened thinker.
The method of psychoanalysis gives us also much insight into the
phenomena of genius, and the hope that we may ultimately come to
understand it. At present we are embarrassed because genius is so often
closely allied to eccentricity; the supernormal appears in connection
with the subnormal--and it is often hard to tell them apart. Great poets
and painters in revolt against a world of smug commercialism, adopt
irresponsibility as their religion; they live in a world of their own,
they dress like freaks, they refuse to pay their debts, or to be true to
their wives. They are followed by a host of disciples, who adopt the
defects of the master as a substitute for his qualities. And so there
grows up a perverted notion of what genius is, and wholly false
standards of artistic quality. There is nothing mankind needs more than
sure and exact tests of mental superiority; not merely the ability to
acquire languages and to solve mathematical equations, but the ability
to carry in the mind intense emotions, while at the same time shaping
and organizing them by the logical faculty, selecting masses of facts
and weaving them into a pattern calculated to awaken the emotion in
others. This is the last and greatest work of the human spirit, and to
select the men who can do it, and foster their activity, is the ultimate
purpose of all true science.
CHAPTER XVII
THE CONDUCT OF THE MIND
     (Concludes the Book of the Mind with a study of how to preserve and
     develop its powers for the protection of our lives and the lives of
     all men.)
Someone wrote me the other day, asking, "When is the best time to
acquire knowledge?" I answer, "The time is now." It is easier to learn
things when you are young, but you cannot be young when you want to be,
and if you are old, the best time to acquire knowledge is when you are
old. It is true that the brain-cells seem to harden like the body, and
it is less easy for them to take on new impressions; but it can be done,
and just as Seneca began to learn Greek at eighty, I know several old
men whom the recent war has shaken out of their grooves of thought and
compelled to deal with modern ideas.
But if you are young, then so much the better! Then the divine thrill of
curiosity is keenest; then your memory is fresh, and can be trained;
your mind is plastic, and you can form sound habits. You can teach
yourself to respect truth and to seek it, you can teach yourself
accuracy, open-mindedness, flexibility, persistence in the search for
understanding.
First of all, I think, is accuracy. Learn to think straight! Let your
mind be as a sharp scalpel, penetrating unrealities and falsehoods,
cutting its way to the facts. When you set out to deal with a certain
subject, acquire mastery of it, so that you can say, "I know." And yet,
never be too sure that you know! Never be so sure, that you are not
willing to consider new facts, and to change your way of thinking if it
should be necessary. I look about me at the world, and see tigers and
serpents, dynamite and poison gas and forty-two centimeter shells--yet I
see nothing in the world so deadly to men as an error of the mind. Look
at the mental follies about you! Look at the prejudices, the delusions,
the lies deliberately maintained--and realize the waste of it all, the
pity of it all!
Every man, it seems, has his pet delusions, which he hugs to his bosom
and loves because they are his own. If you try to deprive him of those
delusions, it is as though you tore from a woman's arms the child she
has borne. I have written a book called "The Profits of Religion," and
never a week passes that there do not come to me letters from people who
tell me they have read this book with pleasure and profit, they are
grateful to me for teaching them so much about the follies and delusions
of mankind, and it is all right and all true, save for two or three
pages, in which I deal with the special hobby which happens to be their
hobby! What I say about all the other creeds is correct--but I fail to
understand that the Mormon religion is a dignified and inspired
religion, a gift from on high, and if only I would carefully study the
"Book of Mormon," I would realize my error! Or it is all right, except
what I say about the Christian Scientists, or the Theosophists, or
perhaps one particular sect of the Theosophists, who are different from
the others. Today there lies upon my desk a letter from a man who has
read many of my books, and now is grief-stricken because he must part
company from me; he discovers that I permit myself to speak
disrespectfully about the Seventh Day Adventist religion, whereas he is
prepared to show the marvels of biblical prophecy now achieving
themselves in the world. How could any save a divinely revealed religion
have foreseen the present movement to establish the Sabbath by law? Yes,
and presently I shall see the last atom of the prophecy fulfilled--there
will be a death penalty for failure to obey the Sabbath law!
Cultivate the great and precious virtue of open-mindedness. Keep your
thinking free, not merely from outer compulsions, but from the more
deadly compulsions of its own making--from prejudices and superstitions.
The prejudices and superstitions of mankind are like those diseased
mental states which are discovered by the psychoanalyst; what he calls a
"complex" in the subconscious mind, a tangle or knot which is a center
of disturbance, and keeps the whole being in a state of confusion. Each
group of men, each sect or class, have their precious dogmas, their
shibboleths, their sacred words and stock phrases which set their whole
beings aflame with fanaticism. They have also their phobias, their words
of terror, which cannot be spoken in their presence without causing a
brain-storm.
At present the dread word of our time is "Communist."
You can scarcely say the word without someone telephoning for the
police. And yet, when you meet a Communist, what is he? A worn and
fragile student, who has thought out a way to make the world a better
place to live in, and whose crime is that he tells others about his
idea! Or perhaps you belong to the other side, and then your word of
terror is the word "Capitalist." You meet a Capitalist, and what do you
find? Very likely you find a man who is kindly, generous in his personal
impulses, but bewildered, possibly a little frightened, still more
irritated and made stubborn. So you realize that nearly all men are
better than the institutions and systems under which they live; you
realize the urgent need of applying your reasoning powers to the problem
of social reorganization.
Cultivate also, in the affairs of your mind, the ancient virtue of
humility. There is an oldtime poem, which perhaps was in your school
readers, "Oh, why should the spirit of mortal be proud?" My answer is,
for innumerable reasons. The spirit of mortal should be proud and must
be proud because life throbs in it, and because life is a marvelous
thing, and the excitement of life is perpetual. Yesterday I met a young
mother; and of what avail is all the pessimism of poets against the
pride of a young mother? "Oh!" she cried, and her face lighted up with
delight. "He said 'Goo'!" Yes, he said "Goo!"--and never since the world
began had there been a baby which had achieved that marvel. Presently it
will be, "Look, look, he is trying to walk!" Then he will be getting
marks at school, and presently he will be displaying signs of genius.
Always it will take an effort of the mind of that young mother to
realize that there are other children in the world as wonderful as her
own; and perhaps it will take many generations of mental effort before
there will be young mothers capable of realizing that some other child
is more wonderful than her child.
In other words, it is by a definite process of broadening our minds that
we come to realize the lives of others, to transfer to them the interest
we naturally take in our own lives, and to admit them to a state of
equality with ourselves. This is one of the services the mind must
render for us; it is the process of civilizing us. And there is another,
and yet more important task, which is to make clear to us the fact that
we do not altogether make this life of ours, that there is a universe of
power and wisdom which is not ours, but on which we draw. "The fear of
the Lord is the beginning of wisdom," said the Psalmist. We know now
that fear is an ugly emotion, destructive to life; but it may be
purified and made into a true humility, which every thinking man must
feel towards life and its miracles.
Also the man will have joy, because it is given him to share the high,
marvelous adventure of being. To the pleasures of the body there is a
limit, and it comes quickly; but the pleasures of the mind are infinite,
and no one who truly understands them can have a moment of boredom in
life. To a man who possesses the key to modern thought, who knows what
knowledge is and where to look for it, the life of the mind is a
panorama of delight perpetually unrolled before him. To the minds of our
ancestors there was one universe; but to our minds there are many
universes, and new ones continually discovered.
The only question is, which one will you choose? Will you choose the
universe of outer space, the material world of infinity? Consider the
smallest insect that you can see, crawling upon the surface of the
earth; small as that insect is in relation to the earth, it is not so
small, by millions of times, as is the earth in relation to the universe
made visible to our eyes by the high-power telescope, plus the
photographic camera, plus the microscope. If you want to know the
miracles of this world of space, read Arrhenius' "The Life of the
Universe," or Simon Newcomb's "Sidelights on Astronomy." Suffice it here
to say that we have a chemistry of the stars, by means of the
spectroscope; that we can measure the speed and direction of stars by
the same means; that we have learned to measure the size of the stars,
and are studying stars which we cannot even see! And then along comes
Einstein, with his theories of "relativity," and makes it seem that we
have to revise a great part of this knowledge to allow for the fact that
not merely everything we look at, but also we ourselves, are flying
every which way through space!
Or will you choose the universe of the atom, the infinity of the
material world followed the other way, so to speak? Big as is the
universe in relation to our world, and big as is our world in relation
to the insect that crawls on it, the insect is bigger yet in relation to
the molecules which compose its body; and these in turn are millions of
millions of times bigger than the atoms which compose them; and then,
behold, in the atom there are millions of millions of electrons--tiny
particles of electric energy! We cannot see these infinitely minute
things, any more than we can see the electricity which runs our trolley
cars; but we can see their effects, and we can count and measure them,
and deal with them in complicated mathematical formulas, and be just as
certain of their existence as we are of the dust under our feet. If you
wish to explore this wonderland, read Duncan's "The New Knowledge," or
Dr. Henry Smith Williams' "Miracles of Science."
Or will you choose the universe of the subconscious, our racial past
locked up in the secret chambers of our mind? Or will you choose the
universe of the superconscious, the infinity of genius manifested in the
arts? By the device of art man not merely creates new life, he tests it,
he weighs it and measures it, he tries experiments with it, as the
physicist with the molecule and the astronomer with light. He finds out
what works, and what does not work, and so develops his moral and
spiritual muscles, training himself for his task as maker of life.
Written words can give but a feeble idea of the wonders that are found
in these enchanted regions of the mind. Here are palaces of splendor
beyond imagining, here are temples with sacred shrines, and
treasure-chambers full of gold and priceless jewels. Into these places
we enter as Aladdin in the ancient tale; we are the masters here, and
all that we see is ours. He who has once got access to it--he possesses
not merely the magic lamp, he possesses all the wonderful fairy
properties of all the tales of our childhood. His is the Tarnhelm and
the magic ring which gives him power over his foes; his is the sword
Excalibur which none can break, and the silver bullet which brings down
all game, and the flying carpet upon which to travel over the earth, and
the house made of ginger-bread, and the three wishes which always come
true, and the philter of love, and the elixir of youth, and the music of
the spheres, and--who knows, some day he may come upon heaven, with St.
Peter and his golden key, and the seraphim singing, and the happy blest
conversing!
PART TWO
THE BOOK OF THE BODY
CHAPTER XVIII
THE UNITY OF THE BODY
     (Discusses the body as a whole, and shows that health is not a
     matter of many different organs and functions, but is one problem
     of one organism.)
The reader who has followed our argument this far will understand that
we are seldom willing to think of the body as separate from the mind.
The body is a machine, to be sure, but it is a machine that has a
driver, and while it is possible for a sound machine to have a drunken
and irresponsible driver, such a machine is not apt to remain sound very
long. Frequently, when there is trouble with the machine, we find the
fault to be with the driver; in other words, we find that what is needed
for the body is a change in the mind.
If you wish to have a sound body, and to keep it sound as long as
possible, the first problem for you to settle is what you want to make
of your life; you must have a purpose, and confront the tasks of life
with energy and interest. What is the use of talking about health to a
man who has no moral purpose? He may answer--indeed, I have heard
victims of alcoholism answer--"Let me alone. I have a right to go to
hell in my own way."
I am aware, of course, that the opposite of the proposition is equally
true. A man cannot enjoy much mental health while he has a sick body. It
is a good deal like the old question, Which comes first, the hen or the
egg? The mind and the body are bound up together, and you may try to
deal with each by turn, but always you find yourself having to deal with
both. Most physicians have a tendency to overlook the mind, and
Christian Scientists make a religion of overlooking the body, and each
pays the penalty in greatly reduced effectiveness.
My first criticism of medical science, as it exists today, is that it
has a tendency to concentrate upon organs and functions, and to overlook
the central unity of the system. You will find a doctor who specializes
in the stomach and its diseases, and is apt to talk as if the stomach
were a thing that went around in the world all by itself. He will
discuss the question of what goes into your stomach, and overlook to
point out to you that your stomach is nourished by your blood-stream,
which is controlled by your nervous system, which in turn is controlled
by hope, by ambition, by love, by all the spiritual elements of your
being. A single pulse of anger or of fear may make more trouble with the
contents of your stomach than the doctor's pepsins and digestive
ferments can remedy in a week.
Of course, you may do yourself some purely local injury, and so for a
time have a purely local problem. You may smash your finger, and that is
a problem of a finger; but neglect it for a few days, and let blood
poison set in, and you will be made aware that the human body is one
organism, and also that, in spite of any metaphysical theories you may
hold, your body does sometimes dominate and control your mind.
Some one has said that the blood is the life; and certainly the blood is
both the symbol and the instrument of the body's unity. The blood
penetrates to all parts of the body and maintains and renews them. If
the blood is normal, the work of renewal does not often fail. If there
is a failure of renewal--that is, a disease--we shall generally find an
abnormal condition of the blood. The distribution of the blood is
controlled by the heart, a great four-chambered pump. One chamber drives
the blood to the lungs, a mass of fine porous membranes, where it comes
into contact with the air, and gives off the poisons which it has
accumulated in its course through the body, and takes up a fresh supply
of oxygen. By another chamber of the heart the blood is then sucked out
of the lungs, and by the next chamber it is driven to every corner of
the body. It takes to every cell of the body the protein materials which
are necessary for the body's renewal, and also the fuel materials which
are to be burned to supply the body's energy; also it takes some thirty
million millions of microscopic red corpuscles which are the carriers of
oxygen, and an even greater number of the white corpuscles, which are
the body's scavengers, its defenders from invasion by outside germs.
There are certain outer portions of the body, such as nails and the
scales of the skin, which are dead matter, produced by the body and
pushed out from it and no longer nourished by the blood. But all the
still living parts of the body are fed at every instant by the stream of
life. Each cell in the body takes the fuel which it needs for its
activities, and combines it with the oxygen brought by the red
corpuscles; and when the task of power-production has been achieved, the
cell puts back into the blood-stream, not merely the carbon dioxide, but
many complex chemical products--ammonia, uric acid, and the "fatigue
poisons," indol, phenol and skatol. The blood-stream bears these along,
and delivers some to the sweat glands to be thrown out, and some to the
kidneys, and the rest to the lungs.
All of this complicated mass of activities is in normal health perfectly
regulated and timed by the nervous system. You lie down to sleep, and
your muscles rest, and the vital activities slow up, your heart beats
only faintly; but let something frighten you, and you sit up, and these
faculties leap into activity, your heart begins to pound, driving a
fresh supply of blood and vital energy. You jump up and run, and these
organs all set to work at top speed. If they did not do so, your muscles
would have no fresh energy; they would become paralyzed by the fatigue
poisons, and you would be, as we say, exhausted.
All the rest of the body might be described as a shelter and accessory
to the life-giving blood-stream; all the rest is the blood-stream's
means of protecting itself and renewing itself. The stomach is to digest
and prepare new blood material, the teeth are to crush it and grind it,
the hands are to seize it, the eyes are to see it, the brain is to
figure out its whereabouts. Man, in his egotism, imagines his little
world as the center of the universe; but the wise old fellow who lives
somewhere deep in our subconsciousness and looks after the welfare of
our blood-stream--he has far better reason for believing that all our
consciousness and our personality exist for him!
Now, disease is some failure of this blood-stream properly to renew
itself or properly to protect itself and its various subsidiary organs.
When you find yourself with a disease, you call in a doctor; and unless
this doctor is a modern and progressive man, he makes the mistake of
assuming that the disease is in the particular organ where it shows
itself. You have, let us say, "follicular tonsilitis." (These medical
men have a love for long names, which have the effect of awing you, and
convincing you that you are in desperate need of attention.) Your throat
is sore, your tonsils are swollen and covered with white spots; so the
doctor hauls out his little black bag, and makes a swab of cotton and
dips it, say in lysol, and paints your tonsils. He knows by means of the
microscope that your tonsils are covered and filled with a mass of
foreign germs which are feeding upon them; also he knows that lysol
kills these germs, and he gives you a gargle for the same purpose, puts
you to bed, and gradually the swelling goes down, and he tells you that
he has cured you, and sends you a bill for services rendered. But maybe
the swelling does not go down; maybe it gets worse and you die. Then he
tells your family that nature was to blame. Nature is to blame for your
death, but it never occurs to anyone to ask what nature may have had to
do with your recovery.
I do not know how many thousands of diseases medical science has now
classified. And for each separate disease there are complex formulas,
and your system is pumped full of various mineral and vegetable
substances which have been found to affect it in certain ways. Perhaps
you have a fever; then we give you a substance which reduces the
temperature of your blood-stream. It never occurs to us to reflect that
maybe nature has some purpose of her own in raising the temperature of
the blood; that this might be, so to speak, the heat of conflict, a
struggle she is waging to drive out invading germs; and that possibly it
would be better for the temperature to stay up until the battle is over.
Or maybe the heart is failing; then our medical man is so eager to get
something into the system that he cannot wait for the slow process of
the mouth and the stomach, he shoots some strychnine directly into the
blood-stream. It does not occur to him to reflect that maybe the heart
is slowing up because it is overloaded with fatigue poisons, of which it
cannot rid itself, and that the effect of stimulating it into fresh
activity will be to leave it more dangerously poisoned than before.
We are dealing here with processes which our ancient mother nature has
been carrying on for a long time, and which she very thoroughly
understands. We ought, therefore, to be sure that we know what is the
final effect of our actions; more especially we ought to be sure that we
understand the cause of the evil, so that we may remove it, and not
simply waste our time treating symptoms, putting plasters on a cancer.
This is the fundamental problem of health; and in order to make clear
what I mean, I am going to begin by telling a personal experience, a
test which I made of medical science some twelve or fourteen years ago,
in connection with one of the simplest and most external of the body's
problems--the hair. First I will tell you what medical science was able
to do for my hair, and second what I myself was able to do, when I put
my own wits to work on the problem.
I had been overworking, and was in a badly run down condition. I was
having headaches, insomnia, ulcerated teeth, many symptoms of a general
breakdown; among these I noticed that my hair was coming out. I decided
that it was foolish to become bald before I was thirty, and that I would
take a little time off, and spend a little money and have my hair
attended to. I did not know where to go, but I wanted the best authority
available, so I wrote to the superintendent of the largest hospital in
New York, asking him for the name of a reliable specialist in diseases
of the scalp. The superintendent replied by referring me to a certain
physician, who was the hospital's "consulting dermatologist," and I went
to see this physician, whose home and office were just off Fifth Avenue.
He examined my scalp, and told me that I had dandruff in my hair, and
that he would give me a prescription which would remove this dandruff
and cause my hair to stop falling out. He charged me ten dollars for the
visit, which in those days was more money than it is at present. Being
of an inquiring turn of mind, I tried to get my money's worth by
learning what there was to learn about the human hair. I questioned this
gentleman, and he told me that the hair is a dead substance, and that
its only life is in the root. He explained that barbers often persuade
people to have their hair singed, to keep it from falling out, and that
this was an utterly futile procedure, and likewise all shampooing and
massage, which only caused the hair to fall out more quickly. It was
better even not to wash the hair too often. All that was needed was a
mixture of chemicals to kill the dandruff germs; and so I had the
prescription put up at a drug store, and for a couple of years I
religiously used it according to order, and it had upon my hair
absolutely no effect whatever.
So here was the best that medical science could do. But still, I did not
want to be bald, so I went among the health cranks--people who
experiment without license from the medical schools. Also, I
experimented upon myself, and now I know something about the human hair,
something entirely different from what the rich and successful
"consulting dermatologist" taught me, but which has kept me from
becoming entirely bald:
First, the human hair is made by the body, and it is made, like
everything else in the body, out of the blood-stream. It is perfectly
true that the dandruff germ gets into the roots, and makes trouble, and
that the process of killing this germ can be helped by chemicals; but it
does not take a ten-dollar prescription, it only takes ten cents' worth
of borax and salt from the corner grocery. (Put a little into a saucer,
moisten it, rub it into the scalp, and wash it out again.) But
infinitely more important than this is the fact that healthy hair roots
are a product of healthy blood, and that unhealthy blood produces sick
hair roots, which cannot hold in the hair. Most important of all is the
fact that in order to make healthy hair roots the blood must flow fully
and freely to these hair roots; whereas I had been accustomed for many
hours every day of my life to clap around my scalp a tight band which
almost entirely stopped the circulation of the life-giving blood to my
sick hair roots. In other words, by wearing civilized hats, I was
literally starving my hair to death.
As soon as I realized this I took off my civilized hat, and have never
worn one since. As a rule, I don't wear anything. On the few occasions
when I go into the city, I wear a soft cap. Now and then I experience
inconvenience from this--the elevator boy in some apartment house tells
me to come in by the delivery entrance, or the porter of a sleeping-car
will not let me in at all. I remember discussing these embarrassments
with Jack London, who went even further in his defiance of civilization,
and wore a soft shirt. It was his custom, he said, to knock down the
elevator boys and sleeping-car porters. I answered that that might be
all right for him, because he could do it; whereas I was reduced to the
painful expedient of explaining politely why I went about without the
customary symbols of my economic superiority.
The "consulting dermatologist" had very solemnly and elaborately warned
me concerning the danger of moving my hair too violently, and thus
causing it to come out; but now my investigations brought out the fact
that moving the hair, that is, massaging the scalp, increases the flow
of blood to the hair roots, and further increases resistance to disease.
As for causing the hair to fall out, I discovered that the more quickly
you cause a hair to fall out, the greater is the chance of your getting
another hair. If a hair is allowed to die in the root, it kills that
root forever, but if it is pulled out before it dies, the root will make
a new hair. Every "beauty parlor" specialist knows this; she knows that
if a hair is pulled, it grows back bigger and stronger than ever, and so
to pull out hair is the last thing you must do if you want to get rid of
hairs!
I know a certain poet, who happens to have been well-endowed with
physical graces by our mother nature. He finds it worth while to
preserve them--they being accessory to those amorous experiences which
form so large a part of the theme of poetry. Anyhow, this poet values
his beautiful hair, and you will see him sitting in front of his
fireplace, reading a book, and meanwhile his fingers run here and there
over his head, and he grabs a bunch of hair and pulls and twists it. He
has cultivated this habit for many years, and as a result his hair is as
thick and heavy as the "fuzzy-wuzzies" of Kipling's poem. It is a
favorite sport of this poet to lure some rival poet into a contest. He
will mildly suggest that they take hold of each other's hair and have a
tug of war. The rival poet, all unsuspecting, will accept the challenge,
and my friend will proceed to haul him all over the place, to the
accompaniment of howls of anguish from the victim, and howls of glee
from the victor, who has, of course, a scalp as tough as a rhinoceros
hide.
I am not a poet, and it is not important that I should be beautiful, and
I have been too busy to remember to pull my hair; but by giving up tight
hats, and by limiting the amount of my overworking, I have managed to
keep what hair I had left when the hair specialist had got through with
me. I tell this anecdote at the beginning of my discussion of health,
because it illustrates so well the factors which appear in every case of
disease, and which you must understand in seeking to remedy the trouble.
We have a phrase which has come down to us from the ancient Latins,
"vis medicatrix naturae," which means the healing power of nature. So
long ago men realized that it is our ancient mother who heals our
wounds, and not the physician. Out of this have grown the cults of
"nature cure" enthusiasts; and according to the fashion of men, they fly
to extremes just as unreasonable and as dangerous as those of the "pill
doctors" they are opposing. I have in mind a man who taught me probably
more than any other writer on health questions, and with whom I once
discussed the subject of typhoid, how it seemed to affect able-bodied
men in the prime of their physical being. This, of course, was contrary
to the theories of nature cure, and my friend had a simple way of
meeting the argument--he refused to believe it. He insisted that, as
with all other germ infections, it must be a question of bodily tone; no
germ could secure lodgment in the human body unless the body's condition
was reduced.
"But how can you be sure of that?" I argued. "You know that if you go
into the jungle, you are not immune against the scorpion or the cobra or
the tiger. There is nothing in all nature that is safe against every
enemy. What possible right have you to assert that you are immune
against every enemy which can attack your blood-stream?"
We shall find here, as we find nearly always, that the truth lies
somewhere between the extremes of two warring schools. Our race has been
existing for a long time in a certain environment, and its very
existence implies superiority to that environment. The weaklings, for
whom its hardships were too severe, were weeded out; hostile parasites
invaded their blood-stream and conquered and devoured them. But those
who survived were able to make in their blood-stream the substances
known as anti-bodies, the "opsonins," to help the white blood corpuscles
devour the germs. As the result of their victory, we carry those
anti-bodies in our system, which gives us immunity to those particular
diseases, or at any rate gives us the ability to have the diseases
without dying. Every time we go into a street car, we take into our
throat and lungs the germs of tuberculosis. Examination proves that we
carry around with us in our mouths the germs of all the common throat
and nose diseases, colds, bronchitis, tonsilitis. No matter what
precautions we might take, no matter if we were to gargle our throats
every few minutes, we could never get rid of such germs. And they wage
continual war upon the body's defenses; they batter in vain upon the
gates of our sound health. But take us to some new environment to which
we are not accustomed; take us to Panama in the old days of yellow
fever, or take us to Africa, and let the tsetse fly bite us, and infect
us with "sleeping sickness." Here are germs to which our systems are not
accustomed; and before them we are as helpless as the ancient
knights-at-arms, who had conquered everything in sight, and ruled the
continent of Europe for many hundreds of years, but were wiped off the
earth by a chemist mixing gunpowder.
In the Marquesas Islands, in the South Seas, there lived a beautiful and
happy race of savages, believed to have been descended, long ages ago,
from Aryan stock. From the point of view of physical perfection, they
were an ideal race, living a blissful outdoor life, which you may read
about in Melville's "Typee," and in O'Brien's "White Shadows in the
South Seas." This race conformed to all the requirements of the nature
enthusiast. They went practically naked, their houses were open all the
time, they lived on the abundant fruits of the earth. To be sure, they
were cannibals, but this was more a matter of religious ceremony than of
diet. They ate their war captives, but this was only after battle, and
not often enough to count, one way or the other, in matters of health.
They had lived for uncounted ages in perfect harmony with their
environment; they were happy and free; and certainly, if such a thing
were possible to human beings, they should have been proof against
germs. But a ship came to one of these islands, and put ashore a sailor
dying of tuberculosis, and in a few years four-fifths of the population
of this island had been wiped out by the disease. What tuberculosis left
were finished by syphilis and smallpox, and today the Marquesans are an
almost extinct race.
But there is another side to the argument--and one more favorable to the
nature cure enthusiast. We civilized men, by soft living, by
self-indulgence and lack of exercise, may reduce the tone of our body
too far below the standard which our ancestors set for us; and then the
common disease germs get us, then we have colds, sore throats,
tuberculosis. The nature cure advocate is perfectly right in saying that
there is no use treating such diseases; the thing is to restore the body
to its former tone, so that we may be superior to our normal environment
and its strains.
You know the poem of the "One Hoss Shay," which was so perfectly built
in every part that it ran for fifty years and then collapsed all at once
in a heap. But the human body is not built that way. It always has one
or more places which are weaker than the others, and which first show
the effects of strain. In one person it will take the form of dyspepsia,
in another it will be headaches, in another colds, in another decaying
teeth, in another hardening of the arteries or stiffening of the joints.
But whatever the symptoms may be, the fundamental cause is always the
same, an abnormal condition of the blood-stream, and a consequent
lowering of the body's tone. Therefore, studying any disease and its
cure, you have first the emergency question, are there any germs lodged
in the body, and if so, how can you destroy them? As part of the
problem, you have to ask whether your blood-stream is normal, and if
not, what are the methods by which you can make it normal and keep it
so? Also you have to ask, what are the reasons why your trouble
manifests itself in this or that particular organ? Is there some
weakness or defect there, and can the defect be remedied, or can your
habits be changed so as to reduce the strain on that organ? Are there
any measures you can take to increase the flow of blood to that organ,
and to promote its activity? In the study of your health, you will find
that circumstances differ, and the importance of one factor or the other
will vary; but you will seldom find any problem in which all these
factors do not enter, and you will seldom find an adequate remedy unless
you take all the factors into consideration.
CHAPTER XIX
EXPERIMENTS IN DIET
     (Narrates the author's adventures in search of health, and his
     conclusions as to what to eat.)
Students of the body assure us that every particle of matter which
composes it is changed in the course of seven years. It is obvious that
everything that is a part of the body has at some time to be taken in as
food; so the problem of our diet today is the problem of what our body
shall consist of seven years from now, and probably a great deal sooner.
I begin this discussion by telling my own personal experiences with
food. I am not going to recommend my diet for anyone else; because one
of the first things I have to say about the subject is that every human
individual is a separate diet problem. But I am going to try to
establish a few principles for your guidance, and more especially to
point out the commonest mistakes. I tell about my own mistakes, because
it happens that I know them more intimately.
I was brought up in the South, where it is the custom of people to give
a great deal of time and thought to the subject of eating. Among the
people I knew it was always taken for granted that there should be at
least one person in the kitchen devoting all her time to the preparing
of delicious things for the family to eat. This person was generally a
negress, and, needless to say, she knew nothing about the chemistry of
foods, nothing about their constituents or nutritive qualities. All she
knew was about their taste; she had been trained to prepare them in ways
that tasted best, and was continually being advised and exhorted and
sometimes scolded by the ladies of the family on this subject. At the
table the family and the guests never failed to talk about the food and
its taste, and not infrequently the cook would be behind the door
listening to their comments; or else she would wait until after the
meal, for the report which somebody would bring her.
In addition to this, the ladies of the family were skilled in what is
called "fancy cooking." They did not bother with the meats and
vegetables, but they mixed batter cakes, and made all kinds of elaborate
desserts, and exchanged these treasures and the recipes for them with
other ladies in the neighborhood. In addition to this, there were
certain periods of the week and of the year especially devoted to the
preparing and consuming of great quantities of foods. Once every seven
days the members of the family expressed their worship of their Creator
by eating twice as much as usual; and at another time they celebrated
the birth of their Redeemer by overeating systematically for a period of
two or three weeks. Needless to say, of course, the children brought up
in such an environment all had large appetites and large stomachs, and
their susceptibility to illness was recognized by the setting apart for
them of a whole classification of troubles--"children's diseases," they
were called. In addition to children's diseases, there were coughs and
colds and sore throats and pains in the stomach and constipation and
diarrhea, which the children shared with their adults.
I had a little more than my share of all these troubles. Always a doctor
would be sent for, and always he was wise and impressive, and always I
was impressed. He gave me some pills or a bottle of liquid, a
teaspoonful every two hours, or something like that--I can hear the
teaspoon rattle in the glass as I write. I had a profound respect for
each and every one of those doctors. He was wisdom walking about in
trousers, and whenever he came, I knew that I was going to get well; and
I did, which proved the case completely.
Then I grew up, and at the age of eighteen or nineteen became possessed
of a desire for knowledge, and took to reading and studying literally
every minute of the day and a good part of the night. I seldom let
myself go to sleep before two o'clock in the morning, and was always up
by seven and ready for work again. I did this for ten years or so, until
nature brought me to a complete stop. During these ten years I was a
regular experiment station in health; that is, I had every kind of
common ailment, and had it over and over again, so that I could try all
the ways of curing it, or failing to cure it, and keep on trying until I
was sure, one way or the other. I came recently upon a wonderful saying
by John Burroughs, which will be appreciated by every author. "This
writing is an unnatural business. It makes your head hot and your feet
cold, and it stops the digesting of your food."
This trouble with my digestion began when I was writing my second novel,
camping out on a lonely island at the foot of Lake Ontario. I went to
see a doctor in a nearby town, and he talked learnedly about dyspepsia.
The cause of it, he said, was failure of the stomach to secrete enough
pepsin, and the remedy was to take artificial pepsin, obtained from the
stomach of a pig. He gave me this pig-pepsin in a bottle of red liquid,
and I religiously took some after each meal. It helped for a time; but
then I noticed that it helped less and less. I got so that a simple meal
of cold meat and boiled potatoes would stay in my stomach for hours, in
spite of any amount of the pig-pepsin; I would lie about in misery,
because I wanted to work, and my accursed stomach would not let me.
All the time, of course, I was using my mind on this problem, groping
for causes. I found that the trouble was worse if I worked immediately
after eating. I found also that it was worse when I was writing books.
When I got sufficiently desperate, I would stop writing books and go off
on a hunting trip. I would tramp twenty miles a day over the mountains,
looking for deer, and I would come back at night too tired to think, and
in a week or two every trace of my trouble would be gone. So my life
regimen came to be--first the writing of a book, and then a hunting trip
to get over the effects of it. But as time went on, alas, I noticed that
the recuperation was more slow and less certain. The working times grew
shorter, and the hunting times grew longer, until finally I had got to a
point where I couldn't work at all; I would go to pieces in a few days
if I tried it. It was apparently the end of my stomach, and the end of
my sleeping, and the end of my writing books. My teeth were decaying,
not merely outside but inside; I would have abscesses, and most
frightful agonies to endure. I would lie awake all night, and it would
seem to me that I could feel my body going to pieces--an extremely
depressing sensation!
I had been trying experiments all this time. I had been going to one
doctor after another, and had got to realize that the doctors only
treated symptoms; they treated the "diseases" when they appeared--but
nobody ever told you how to keep the "diseases" from appearing. Why
could there not be a doctor who would look you over thoroughly, and tell
you everything that was wrong with you, and how to set it right? A
doctor who would tell you exactly how to live, so that you might keep
well all the time! I was studying economics, and becoming suspicious of
my fellow man; it occurred to me that possibly it might be embarrassing
to a doctor, if he cured all his patients, and taught them how to live,
so that none of them would ever have to come to him again. It occurred
to me that possibly this might be the reason why "preventive medicine,"
constructive health work, was getting so little attention from the
medical fraternity.
Two things that plagued me were headache and constipation, and they were
obviously related. For constipation, the world had one simple remedy;
you "took something" every night or every morning, and thought no more
about it. My stout and amiable grandmother had drunk a glass of Hunyadi
water every morning for the last thirty or forty years, and that she
finally died of "fatty degeneration of the heart" was not connected with
this in the mind of anyone who knew her. As for the headaches, people
would tell you this, that, and the other remedy, and I would try
them--that is, unless they happened to be drugs. I was getting more and
more shy of drugs. I had some blessed instinct which saved me from
stimulants and narcotics. I had never used tea, coffee, alcohol or
tobacco, and in my worst periods of suffering I never took to putting
myself to sleep with chloral, or to stopping my headaches with
phenacetin.
At the end of six or eight years of purgatory, I came upon a prospectus
of the Battle Creek Sanitarium. This seemed to me exactly what I wanted;
this was constructive, it dealt with the body as a whole. So I spent a
couple of months at the "San," and paid them something like a thousand
dollars to tell me all they could about myself.
The first thing they told me was that meat-eating was killing me. It was
perfectly obvious, was it not, that meat is a horrible feeding place for
germs, that rotten meat is dreadfully offensive, and likewise digested
meat--consider the excreta of cats, for example! I listened solemnly
while Doctor Kellogg read off the numbers of billions of bacteria per
gram in the contents of the colon of a carnivorous person. It certainly
seemed proper that the author of "The Jungle" should be a vegetarian, so
I became one, and did my best to persuade myself that I enjoyed the
taste of the patent meat-substitutes which are served in hundred calory
portions in the big Sanitarium dining-room.
There also I met Horace Fletcher, and learned to chew every particle of
food thirty-two times, and often more. I exercised in the Sanitarium
gymnasium, and watched the sterilized dancing--the men with the men and
the women with the women. I was patiently polite with the Seventh Day
Adventist religion, and laid in a supply of postage stamps on Friday
evening. Finally, and most important of all, I went once a day to the
"treatment rooms," and had my abdomen doctored alternately with hot
cloths and ice. By this means I kept up a flow of blood in the
intestinal tract, and stimulated these organs to activity; so my
constipation was relieved, and my headaches were less severe--so long as
I stayed at the Sanitarium, and was boiled and frozen once every day.
But when I left the Sanitarium, and abandoned the treatments, the
troubles began to return. Meantime, however, I had written a book in
praise of vegetarianism--a book which has got into the libraries, and
cannot be got out again!
I went on to a new variety of health crank, the real "nature cure"
practitioners. Vegetarianism was not enough, they insisted; the evil had
begun long before, when man first ruined his food and destroyed its
nutritive value by means of fire. There was only one certain road to
health, and that was by the raw food route, the monkey and squirrel
diet. I had gone out to California for a winter's rest, and decided I
would give this plan a thorough trial. For five months I lived by
myself, and the only cooked food I ate was shredded wheat biscuit. For
the rest I lived on nuts and salads and fresh and dried fruits; and
during this period I enjoyed such health as I had never known in my life
before. I had literally not a single ailment. I was not merely well, but
bubbling over with health. I had a friend who said it cheered him up
just to see me walk down the street.
I thought that it was entirely the raw food, and that I had solved the
problem forever; but I overlooked the fact that during those five months
I had done no hard brain work, no writing. I went back to writing again,
and things began to go wrong; my wonderful raw foods took to making
trouble in my stomach--and I assure you that until you try, you have no
idea the amount of trouble that can be made in your stomach by a load of
bananas and soaked prunes which has gone wrong! For a year or two I
agonized; I could not give up my wonderful raw food diet, because I had
always before me the vision of those months in California, and could
not understand why it was not that way again.
But the time came when I would eat a meal of raw food, and for hours
afterwards my stomach would feel like a blown-up football. Then somebody
gave me a book by Dr. Salisbury on the subject of the meat diet. Of all
the horrible things in the world, a meat diet sounded to me the worst; I
