"Good God!" said Stormont in a low voice. "What are you doing here,
Darragh?"
Darragh came close and rested one hand on Stormont's shoulder:
"Don't crab my game, Stormont. I never dreamed you were in the
Constabulary or I'd have let you know."
"Are you Hal Smith?"
"I sure am. Where's that girl?"
"Handcuffed out yonder."
"Then for God's sake go back and act as if you hadn't found me. Tell
Mayor Chandler that I'm after bigger game than he is."
"Clinch?"
"Stormont, I'm here to protect Mike Clinch. Tell the Mayor not to
touch him. The men I'm after are going to try to rob him. I don't want
them to because--well, I'm going to rob him myself."
Stormont stared.
"You must stand by me," said Darragh. "So must the Mayor. He knows me
through and through. Tell him to forget that hold-up. I stopped that man
Sard. I frisked him. Tell the Mayor. I'll keep in touch with him."
"Of course," said Stormont, "that settles it."
"Thanks, old chap. Now go back to that girl and let her believe that you
never found me."
A slight smile touched their eyes. Both instinctively saluted. Then they
shook hands; Darragh, alias Hal Smith, went back into the hemlock-shaded
hole in the rocks; Trooper Stormont walked slowly down through the
spruces.
When Eve saw him returning empty handed, something flashed in her pallid
face like sunlight across snow.
Stormont passed her, went to the water's edge, soaked a spicy handful of
sphagnum moss in the icy water, came back and wiped the blood from her
face.
The girl seemed astounded; her face surged in vivid colour as he
unlocked the handcuffs and pocketed them and the little steel chain.
Her lip was bleeding again. He washed it with wet moss, took a clean
handkerchief from the breast of his tunic and laid it against her mouth.
"Hold it there," he said.
Mechanically she raised her hand to support the compress. Stormont went
back to the shore, recovered her rifle from the shallow water, and
returned with it.
As she made no motion to take it, he stood it against the tree to which
he had tied her.
Then he came close to her where she stood holding his handkerchief
against her mouth and looking at him out of steady eyes as deeply blue
as gentian blossoms.
"Eve," he said, "you win. But you won't forgive me.... I wish we could
be friends, some day.... We never can, now.... Good-bye."
Neither spoke again. Then, of a sudden, the girl's eyes filled; and
Trooper Stormont caught her free hand and kissed it;--kissed it again
and again,--dropped it and went striding away through the underbrush
which was now all rosy with the rays of sunset.
       
After he had disappeared, the girl, Eve, went to the cleft in the rocks
above.
"Come out," she said contemptuously. "It's a good thing you hid, because
there was a real man after you; and God help you if he ever finds you!"
Hal Smith came out.
"Pack in your meat," said the girl curtly, and flung his rifle across
her shoulder.
Through the ruddy afterglow she led the way homeward, a man's
handkerchief pressed to her wounded mouth, her eyes preoccupied with
the strangest thoughts that ever had stirred her virgin mind.
Behind her walked Darragh with his load of venison and his alias,--and
his tongue in his cheek.
Thus began the preliminaries toward the ultimate undoing of Mike Clinch.
Fate, Chance, and Destiny had undertaken the job in earnest.
EPISODE TWO
THE RULING PASSION
I
Nobody understood how José Quintana had slipped through the Secret
Service net spread for him at every port.
The United States authorities did not know why Quintana had come to
America. They realised merely that he arrived for no good purpose; and
they had meant to arrest and hold him for extradition if requested; for
deportation as an undesirable alien anyway.
Only two men in America knew that Quintana had come to the United States
for the purpose of recovering the famous "Flaming Jewel," stolen by him
from the Grand Duchess Theodorica of Esthonia; and stolen from Quintana,
in turn, by a private soldier in an American Forestry Regiment, on leave
in Paris. This soldier's name, probably, was Michael Clinch.
One of the men who knew why Quintana might come to America was James
Darragh, recently of the Military Intelligence, but now passing as a
hold-up man under the name of Hal Smith, and actually in the employment
of Clinch at his disreputable "hotel" at Star Pond in the North Woods.
The other man who knew why Quintana had come to America was Emanuel
Sard, a Levantine diamond broker of New York, Quintana's agent in
America.
       
Now, as the October days passed without any report of Quintana's
detention, Darragh, known as Hal Smith at Clinch's dump, began to
suspect that Quintana had already slid into America through the meshes
of the police.
If so, this desperate international criminal could be expected at
Clinch's under some guise or other, piloted thither by Emanuel Sard.
So Hal Smith, whose duty was to wash dishes, do chores, and also to
supply Clinch's with "mountain beef"--or deer taken illegally--made it
convenient to prowl every day in the vicinity of the Ghost Lake road.
He was perfectly familiar with Emanuel Sard's squat features and parrot
nose, having robbed Mr. Sard of Quintana's cipher and of $4,000 at
pistol point. And one morning, while roving around the guide's quarters
at Ghost Lake Inn, Smith beheld Sard himself on the hotel veranda, in
company with five strangers of foreign aspect.
During the midday dinner Smith, on pretense of enquiring for a guide's
license, got a look at the Inn ledger. Sard's signature was on it,
followed by the names of Henri Picquet, Nicolas Salzar, Victor
Georgiades, Harry Beck, and José Sanchez. And Smith went back through
the wilderness to Star Pond, convinced that one of these gentlemen was
Quintana, and the remainder, Quintana's gang; and that they were here to
do murder if necessary in their remorseless quest of "The Flaming
Jewel." Two million dollars once had been offered for the Flaming Jewel;
and had been refused.
Clinch probably possessed it. Smith was now convinced of that. But he
was there to rob Clinch of it himself. For he had promised the little
Grand Duchess to help recover her Erosite jewel; and now that he had
finally traced its probable possession to Clinch, he was wondering how
this recovery was to be accomplished.
To arrest Clinch meant ruin to Eve Strayer. Besides he knew now that
Clinch would die in prison before revealing the hiding place of the
Flaming Jewel.
Also, how could it be proven that Clinch had the Erosite gem? The cipher
from Quintana was not sufficient evidence.
No; the only way was to watch Clinch, prevent any robbery by Quintana's
gang, somehow discover where the Flaming Jewel had been concealed, take
it, and restore it to the beggared young girl whose only financial
resource now lay in the possible recovery of this almost priceless gem.
       
Toward evening Hal Smith shot two deer near Owl Marsh. To poach on his
own property appealed to his sense of humour. And Clinch, never dreaming
that Hal Smith was the James Darragh who had inherited Harrod's vast
preserve, damned all millionaires for every buck brought in, and became
friendlier to Smith.
II
Clinch's dump was the disposal plant in which collected the human sewage
of the wilderness.
It being Saturday, the scum of the North Woods was gathering at the Star
Pond resort. A venison and chicken supper was promised--and a dance if
any women appeared.
Jake Kloon had run in some Canadian hooch; Darragh, alias Hal Smith,
contributed two fat deer and Clinch cooked them. By ten o'clock that
morning many of the men were growing noisy; some were already drunk by
noon. Shortly after midday dinner the first fight started--extinguished
only after Clinch had beaten several of the backwoods aristocracy
insensible.
Towering amid the wreck of battle, his light grey eyes a-glitter, Clinch
dominated, swinging his iron fists.
When the combat ended and the fallen lay starkly where they fell, Clinch
said in his pleasant, level voice:
"Take them out and stick their heads in the pond. And don't go for to
get me mad, boys, or I'm liable to act up rough."
They bore forth the sleepers for immersion in Star Pond. Clinch
relighted his cigar and repeated the rulings which had caused the
fracas:
"You gotta play square cards here or you don't play none in my house. No
living thumb-nail can nick no cards in my place and get away with it.
Three kings and two trays is better than three chickens and two eggs. If
you don't like it, g'wan home."
He went out in his shirt sleeves to see how the knock-outs were
reviving, and met Hal Smith returning from the pond, who reported
progress toward consciousness. They walked back to the "hotel" together.
"Say, young fella," said Clinch in his soft, agreeable way, "you want to
keep your eye peeled to-night."
"Why?" inquired Smith.
"Well, there'll be a lot o' folks here. There'll be strangers, too....
Don't forget the State Troopers are looking for you."
"Do the State Troopers ever play detective?" asked Smith, smiling.
"Sure. They've been in here rigged out like peddlers and lumber-jacks
and timber lookers."
"Did they ever get anything on you?"
"Not a thing."
"Can you always spot them, Mike?"
"No. But when a stranger shows up here who don't know nobody, he never
sees nothing and he don't never learn nothing. He gets no hootch outa
me. No, nor no craps and no cards. He gets his supper; that's what he
gets ... and a dance, if there's ladies--and if any girl favours him.
That's all the change any stranger gets out of Mike Clinch."
They had paused on the rough veranda in the hot October sunshine.
"Mike," suggested Smith carelessly, "wouldn't it pay you better to go
straight?"
Clinch's small grey eyes, which had been roaming over the prospect of
lake and forest, focussed on Smith's smiling features.
"What's that to you?" he asked.
"I'll be out of a job," remarked Smith, laughing, "if they ever land
you."
Clinch's level gaze measured him; his mind was busy measuring him, too.
"Who the hell are you, anyway?" he asked. "I don't know. You stick up
a man on the Ghost Lake Road and hide out here when the State Troopers
come after you. And now you ask me if it pays better to go straight. Why
didn't you go straight if you think it pays?"
"I haven't got a daughter to worry about," explained Smith. "If they get
me it won't hurt anybody else."
A dull red tinge came out under Clinch's tan:
"Who asked you to worry about Eve?"
"She's a fine girl: that's all."
Clinch's steely glare measured the young man:
"You trying to make up to her?" he enquired gently.
"No. She has no use for me."
Clinch reflected, his cold tiger-gaze still fastened on Smith.
"You're right," he said after a moment. "Eve is a good girl. Some day
I'll make a lady of her."
"She is one, Clinch."
At that Clinch reddened heavily--the first finer emotion ever betrayed
before Smith. He did not say anything for a few moments, but his grim
mouth worked. Finally:
"I guess you was a gentleman once before you went crooked, Hal," he
said. "You act up like you once was.... Say; there's only one thing on
God's earth I care about. You've guessed it, too." He was off again upon
his ruling passion.
"Eve," nodded Smith.
"Sure. She isn't my flesh and blood. But it seems like she's more, even.
I want she should be a lady. It's all I want. That damned millionaire
Harrod bust me. But he couldn't stop me giving Eve her schooling. And
now all I'm livin' for is to be fixed so's to give her money to go to
the city like a lady. I don't care how I make money; all I want is to
make it. And I'm a-going to."
Smith nodded again.
Clinch, now obsessed by his monomania, went on with an oath:
"I can't make no money on the level after what Harrod done to me. And I
gotta fix up Eve. What the hell do you mean by asking me would it pay me
to travel straight I dunno."
"I was only thinking of Eve. A lady isn't supposed to have a crook for a
father."
Clinch's grey eyes blazed for a moment, then their menacing glare
dulled, died out into wintry fixity.
"I wan't born a crook," he said. "I ain't got no choice. And don't
worry, young fella; they ain't a-going to get me."
"You can't go on beating the game forever, Clinch."
"I'm beating it----" he hesitated--"and it won't be so long, neither,
before I turn over enough to let Eve live in the city like any lady,
with her autymobile and her own butler and all her swell friends, in a
big house like she is educated for----"
He broke off abruptly as a procession approached from the lake,
escorting the battered gentry who now were able to wabble about a
little.
One of them, a fox-faced trap thief named Earl Leverett, slunk hastily
by as though expecting another kick from Clinch.
"G'wan inside, Earl, and act up right," said Clinch pleasantly. "You
oughter have more sense than to start a fight in my place--you and Sid
Hone and Harvey Chase. G'wan in and behave."
He and Smith followed the procession of damaged ones into the house.
The big unpainted room where a bar had once been was blue with cheap
cigar smoke; the air reeked with the stench of beer and spirits. A score
or more shambling forest louts in their dingy Saturday finery were
gathered there playing cards, shooting craps, lolling around tables and
tilting slopping glasses at one another.
Heavy pleasantries were exchanged with the victims of Clinch's ponderous
fists as they re-entered the room from which they had been borne so
recently, feet first.
"Now, boys," said Clinch kindly, "act up like swell gents and behave
friendly. And if any ladies come in for the chicken supper, why, gol
dang it, we'll have a dance!"
III
Toward sundown the first woodland nymph appeared--a half-shy, half-bold,
willowy thing in the rosy light of the clearing.
Hal Smith, washing glasses and dishes on the back porch for Eve Strayer
to dry, asked who the rustic beauty might be.
"Harvey Chase's sister," said Eve. "She shouldn't come here, but I can't
keep her away and her brother doesn't care. She's only a child, too."
"Is there any harm in a chicken supper and a dance?"
Eve looked gravely at young Smith without replying.
Other girlish shapes loomed in the evening light. Some were met by
gallants, some arrived at the veranda unescorted.
"Where do they all come from? Do they live in trees like dryads?" asked
Smith.
"There are always squatters in the woods," she replied indifferently.
"Some of these girls come from Ghost Lake, I suppose."
"Yes; waitresses at the Inn."
"What music is there?"
"Jim Hastings plays a fiddle. I play the melodeon if they need me."
"What do you do when there's a fight?" he asked, with a side glance at
her pure profile.
"What do you suppose I do? Fight, too?"
He laughed--mirthlessly--conscious always of his secret pity for this
girl.
"Well," he said, "when your father makes enough to quit, he'll take you
out of this. It's a vile hole for a young girl----"
"See here," she said, flushing; "you're rather particular for a young
man who stuck up a tourist and robbed him of four thousand dollars."
"I'm not complaining on my own account," returned Smith, laughing;
"Clinch's suits me."
"Well, don't concern yourself on my account, Hal Smith. And you'd better
keep out of the dance, too, if there are any strangers there."
"You think a State Trooper may happen in?"
"It's likely. A lot of people come and go. We don't always know them."
She opened a sliding wooden shutter and looked into the bar room. After
a moment she beckoned him to her side.
"There are strangers there now," she said, "--that thin, dark man who
looks like a Kanuk. And those two men shaking dice. I don't know who
they are. I never before saw them."
But Smith had seen them at Ghost Lake Inn. One of them was Sard.
Quintana's gang had arrived at Clinch's dump.
A moment later Clinch came through the pantry and kitchen and out onto
the rear porch where Smith was washing glasses in a tub filled from an
ever-flowing spring.
"I'm a-going to get supper," he said to Eve. "There'll be twenty-three
plates." And to Smith: "Hal--you help Eve wait on the table. And if
anybody acts up rough you slam him on the jaw--don't argue, don't
wait--just slam him good, and I'll come on the hop."
"Who are the strangers, dad?" asked Eve.
"Don't nobody know 'em none, girlie. But they ain't State Troopers. They
talk like they was foreign. One of 'em's English--the big, bony one with
yellow hair and mustache."
"Did they give any names?" asked Smith.
"You bet. The stout, dark man calls himself Hongri Picket. French, I
guess. The fat beak is a fella named Sard. Sanchez is the guy with a
face like a Canada priest--José Sanchez--or something on that style. And
then the yellow skinned young man is Nicole Salzar; the Britisher, Harry
Beck; and that good lookin' dark gent with a little black Charlie
Chaplin, he's Victor Georgiades."
"What are those foreigners doing in the North Woods, Clinch?" enquired
Smith.
"Oh, they all give the same spiel--hire out in a lumber camp. But they
ain't no lumberjacks," added Clinch contemptuously. "I don't know what
they be--hootch runners maybe--or booze bandits--or they done something
crooked som'ers r'other. It's safe to serve 'em drinks."
Clinch himself had been drinking. He always drank when preparing to
cook.
He turned and went into the kitchen now, rolling up his shirt sleeves
and relighting his clay pipe.
IV
By nine o'clock the noisy chicken supper had ended; the table had been
cleared; Jim Hastings was tuning his fiddle in the big room; Eve had
seated herself before the battered melodeon.
"Ladies and gents," said Clinch in his clear, pleasant voice, which
carried through the hubbub, "we're a-going to have a dance--thanks and
beholden to Jim Hastings and my daughter Eve. Eve, she don't drink and
she don't dance, so no use askin' and no hard feelin' toward nobody.
"So act up pleasant to one and all and have a good time and no rough
stuff in no form, shape or manner, but behave like gents all and swell
dames, like you was to a swarry on Fifth Avenue. Let's go!"
He went back to the pantry, taking no notice of the cheering. The
fiddler scraped a fox trot, and Eve's melodeon joined in. A vast
scuffling of heavily shod feet filled the momentary silence, accented by
the shrill giggle of young girls.
"They're off," remarked Clinch to Smith, who stood at the pantry shelf
prepared to serve whiskey or beer upon previous receipt of payment.
In the event of a sudden raid, the arrangements at Clinch's were quite
simple. Two large drain pipes emerged from the kitchen floor beside
Smith, and ended in Star Pond. In case of alarm the tub of beer was
poured down one pipe; the whiskey down the other.
Only the trout in Star Pond would ever sample that hootch again.
Clinch, now slightly intoxicated, leaned heavily on the pantry shelf
beside Smith, adjusting his pistol under his suspenders.
"Young fella," he said in his agreeable voice, "you're dead right. You
sure said a face-full when you says to me, 'Eve's a lady, by God!' You
oughta know. You was a gentleman yourself once. Even if you take to
stickin' up tourists you know a lady when you see one. And you called
the turn. She is a lady. All I'm livin' for is to get her down to the
city and give her money to live like a lady. I'll do it yet.... Soon!...
I'd do it to-morrow--to-night--if I dared.... If I thought it sure
fire.... If I was dead certain I could get away with it.... I've got
the money. Now! ... Only it ain't in money.... Smith?"
"Yes, Mike."
"You know me?"
"Sure."
"You size me up?"
"I do."
"All right. If you ever tell anyone I got money that ain't money I'll
shoot you through the head."
"Don't worry, Clinch."
"I ain't. You're a crook; you won't talk. You're a gentleman, too.
They don't sell out a pal. Say, Hal, there's only one fella I don't
want to meet."
"Who's that, Mike?"
"Lemme tell you," continued Clinch, resting more heavily on the shelf
while Smith, looking out through the pantry shutter at the dancing,
listened intently.
"When I was in France in a Forestry Rig'ment," went on Clinch, lowering
his always pleasant voice, "I was to Paris on leave a few days before
they sent us home.
"I was in the washroom of a caffy--a-cleanin' up for supper, when
dod-bang! into the place comes a-tumblin' a man with two cops pushing
and kickin' him.
"They didn't see me in there for they locked the door on the man. He was
a swell gent, too, in full dress and silk hat and all like that, and a
opry cloak and white kid gloves, and mustache and French beard.
"When they locked him up he stood stock still and lit a cigarette, as
cool as ice. Then he begun walkin' around looking for a way to get out;
but there wasn't no way.
"Then he seen me and over he comes and talks English right away: 'Want
to make a thousand francs, soldier?' sez he in a quick whisper. 'You're
on,' sez I; 'show your dough.' 'Them Flics has went to get the
Commissaire for to frisk me,' sez he. 'If they find this parcel on me I
do twenty years in Noumea. Five years kills anybody out there.' 'What do
you want I should do?' sez I, havin' no love for no cops, French or
other. 'Take this packet and stick it in your overcoat,' sez he. 'Go to
13 roo Quinze Octobre and give it to the concierge for José Quintana.'
And he shoves the packet on me and a thousand-franc note.
"Then he grabs me sudden and pulls open my collar. God, he was strong.
"'What's the matter with you?' says I. 'Lemme go or I'll mash your mug
flat.' 'Lemme see your identification disc,' he barks.
"Bein' in Paris for a bat, I had exchanged with my bunkie, Bill Hanson.
'Let him look,' thinks I; and he reads Bill's check.
"'If you fool me,' says he, 'I'll folly ye and I'll do you in if it
takes the rest of my life. You understand?' 'Sure,' says I, me tongue in
me cheek. 'Bong! Allez vous en!' says he.
"'How the hell,' sez I, 'do I get out of here?' 'You're a Yankee
soldier. The Flics don't know you were in here. You go and kick on that
door and make a holler.'
"So I done it good; and a cop opens and swears at me, but when he sees a
Yankee soldier was locked in the wash-room by mistake, he lets me out,
you bet."
Clinch smiled a thin smile, poured out three fingers of hooch.
"What else?" asked Smith quietly.
"Nothing much. I didn't go to no roo Quinze Octobre. But I don't never
want to see that fella Quintana. I've been waiting till it's safe to
sell--what was in that packet."
"Sell what?"
"What was in that packet," replied Clinch thickly.
"What was in it?"
"Sparklers--since you're so nosey."
"Diamonds?"
"And then some. I dunno what they're called. All I know is I'll croak
Quintana if he even turns up askin' for 'em. He frisked somebody. I
frisked him. I'll kill anybody who tries to frisk me."
"Where do you keep them?" enquired Smith naïvely.
Clinch looked at him, very drunk: "None o' your dinged business," he
said very softly.
The dancing had become boisterous but not unseemly, although all the men
had been drinking too freely.
Smith closed the pantry bar at midnight, by direction of Eve. Now he
came out into the ballroom and mixed affably with the company, even
dancing with Harvey Chase's sister once--a slender hoyden, all flushed
and dishevelled, with a tireless mania for dancing which seemed to
intoxicate her.
She danced, danced, danced, accepting any partner offered. But Smith's
skill enraptured her and she refused to let him go when her beau, a late
arrival, one Charlie Berry, slouched up to claim her.
Smith, always trying to keep Clinch and Quintana's men in view, took no
part in the discussion; but Berry thought he was detaining Lily Chase
and pushed him aside.
"Hold on, young man!" exclaimed Smith sharply. "Keep your hands to
yourself. If your girl don't want to dance with you she doesn't have
to."
Some of Quintana's gang came up to listen. Berry glared at Smith.
"Say," he said, "I seen you before somewhere. Wasn't you in Russia?"
"What are you talking about?"
"Yes, you was. You was an officer! What you doing at Clinch's?"
"What's that?" growled Clinch, shoving his way forward and shouldering
the crowd aside.
"Who's this man, Mike?" demanded Berry.
"Well, who do you think he is?" asked Clinch thickly.
"I think he's gettin' the goods on you, that's what I think," yelled
Berry.
"G'wan home, Charlie," returned Clinch. "G'wan, all o' you. The dance is
over. Go peaceable, every one. Stop that fiddle!"
The music ceased. The dance was ended; they all understood that; but
there was grumbling and demands for drinks.
Clinch, drunk but impassive, herded them through the door out into the
starlight. There was scuffling, horse-play, but no fighting.
The big Englishman, Harry Beck, asked for accommodations for his party
over night.
"Naw," said Clinch, "g'wan back to the Inn. I can't bother with you
folks to-night." And as the others, Salzar, Georgiades, Picquet and
Sanchez gathered about to insist, Clinch pushed them all out of doors in
a mass.
"Get the hell out o' here!" he growled; and slammed the door.
He stood for a moment with head lowered, drunk, but apparently capable
of reflection. Eve came from the melodeon and laid one slim hand on his
arm.
"Go to bed, girlie," he said, not looking at her.
"You also, dad."
"No.... I got business with Hal Smith."
Passing Smith, the girl whispered: "You look out for him and undress
him."
Smith nodded, gravely preoccupied with coming events, and nerving
himself to meet them.
He had no gun. Clinch's big automatic bulged under his armpit.
When the girl had ascended the creaking stairs and her door, above,
closed, Clinch walked unsteadily to the door, opened it, fished out his
pistol.
"Come on out," he said without turning.
"Where?" enquired Smith.
Clinched turned, lifted his square head; and the deadly glare in his
eyes left Smith silent.
"You comin'?"
"Sure," said Smith quietly.
But Clinch gave him no chance to close in: it was death even to swerve.
Smith walked slowly out into the starlight, ahead of Clinch--slowly
forward in the luminous darkness.
"Keep going," came Clinch's quiet voice behind him. And, after they had
entered the woods,--"Bear to the right."
Smith knew now. The low woods were full of sink-holes. They were headed
for the nearest one.
       
On the edge of the thing they halted. Smith turned and faced Clinch.
"What's the idea?" he asked without a quaver.
"Was you in Roosia?"
"Yes."
"Was you an officer?"
"I was."
"Then you're spyin'. You're a cop."
"You're mistaken."
"Ah, don't hand me none like that! You're a State Trooper or a Secret
Service guy, or a plain, dirty cop. And I'm a-going to croak you."
"I'm not in any service, now."
"Wasn't you an army officer?"
"Yes. Can't an officer go wrong?"
"Soft stuff. Don't feed it to me. I told you too much anyway. I was
babblin' drunk. I'm drunk now, but I got sense. D'you think I'll run
chances of sittin' in State's Prison for the next ten years and leave
Eve out here alone? No. I gotta shoot you, Smith. And I'm a-going to do
it. G'wan and say what you want ... if you think there's some kind o'
god you can square before you croak."
"If you go to the chair for murder, what good will it do Eve?" asked
Smith. His lips were crackling dry; he moistened them.
"Sink holes don't talk," said Clinch. "G'wan and square yourself, if
you're the church kind."
"Clinch," said Smith unsteadily, "if you kill me now you're as good as
dead yourself. Quintana is here."
"Say, don't hand me that," retorted Clinch. "Do you square yourself or
no?"
"I tell you Quintana's gang were at the dance to-night--Picquet, Salzar,
Georgiades, Sard, Beck, José Sanchez--the one who looks like a French
priest. Maybe he had a beard when you saw him in that café
wash-room----"
"What!" shouted Clinch in sudden fury. "What yeh talkin' about, you poor
dumb dingo! Yeh fixin' to scare me? What do you know about Quintana?
Are you one of Quintana's gang, too? Is that what you're up to, hidin'
out at Star Pond. Come on, now, out with it! I'll have it all out of you
now, Hal Smith, before I plug you----"
He came lurching forward, swinging his heavy pistol as though he meant
to brain his victim, but he halted after the first step or two and stood
there, a shadowy bulk, growling, enraged, undecided.
And, as Smith looked at him, two shadows detached themselves from the
trees behind Clinch--silently--silently glided behind--struck in utter
silence.
Down crashed Clinch, black-jacked, his face in the ooze. His pistol flew
from his hand, struck Smith's leg; and Smith had it at the same instant
and turned it like lightning on the murderous shadows.
"Hands up! Quick!" he cried, at bay now, and his back to the sink-hole.
Pistol levelled, he bent one knee, pushed Clinch over on his back, lest
the ooze suffocate him.
"Now," he said coolly, "what do you bums want of Mike Clinch?"
"Who are you?" came a sullen voice. "This is none o' your bloody
business. We want Clinch, not you."
"What do you want of Clinch?"
"Take your gun off us!"
"Answer, or I'll let go at you. What do you want of Clinch?"
"Money. What do you think?"
"You're here to stick up Clinch?" enquired Smith.
"Yes. What's that to you?"
"What has Clinch done to you?"
"He stuck us up, that's what! Now, are you going to keep out of this?"
"No."
"We ain't going to hurt Clinch."
"You bet you're not. Where's the rest of your gang?"
"What gang?"
"Quintana's," said Smith, laughing. A wild exhilaration possessed him.
His flanks and rear were protected by the sink-hole. He had Quintana's
gang--two of them--over his pistol.
"Turn your backs and sit down," he said. As the shadowy forms hesitated,
he picked up a stick and hurled it at them. They sat down hastily, hands
up, backs toward him.
"You'll both die where you sit," remarked Smith, "if you yell for help."
Clinch sighed heavily, stirred, groped on the damp leaves with his
hands.
"I say," began the voice which Smith identified as Harry Beck's, "if
you'll come in with us on this it will pay you, young man."
"No," drawled Smith, "I'll go it alone."
"It can't be done, old dear. You'll see if you try it on."
"Who'll stop me? Quintana?"
"Come," urged Beck, "and be a good pal. You can't manage it alone. We've
got all night to make Clinch talk. We know how, too. You'll get your
share----"
"Oh, stow it," said Smith, watching Clinch, who was reviving. He sat up
presently, and put both hands over his head. Smith touched him silently
on the shoulder and he turned his heavy, square head in a dazed way.
Blood striped his visage. He gazed dully at Smith for a little while,
then, seeming to recollect, the old glare began to light his pale eyes.
The next instant, however, Beck spoke again, and Clinch turned in
astonishment and saw the two figures sitting there with backs toward
Smith and hands up.
Clinch stared at the squatting forms, then slowly moved his head and
looked at Smith and his levelled pistol.
"We know how to make a man squeal," said Harry Beck suddenly. "He'll
talk. We can make Clinch talk, no fear! Leave it to us, old pal. Are you
with us?" He started to look around over his shoulder and Smith hurled
another stick and hit him in the face.
"Quiet there, Harry," he said. "What's my share if I go in with you?"
"One sixth, same's we all get."
"What's it worth?" asked Smith, with a motion of caution toward Clinch.
"If I say a million you'll tell me I lie. But it's nearer three--or you
can have my share. Is it a go?"
"You'll not hurt Clinch when he comes to?"
"We'll make him talk, that's all. It may hurt him some."
"You won't kill him?"
"I swear by God----"
"Wait! Isn't it better to shoot him after he squeals? Here's a lovely
sink-hole handy."
"Right-o! We'll make him talk first and then shove him in. Are you with
us?"
"If you turn your head I'll blow the face off you, Harry," said Smith,
cautioning Clinch to silence with a gesture.
"All right. Only you better make up your mind. That cove is likely to
wake up now at any time," grumbled Beck.
Clinch looked at Smith. The latter smiled, leaned over, and whispered:
"Can you walk all right?"
Clinch nodded.
"Well, we'd better beat it. Quintana's whole gang is in these woods,
somewhere, hunting for you, and they might stumble on us here, at any
moment." And, to the two men in front: "Lie down flat on your faces.
Don't stir; don't speak; or it's you for the sink-hole.... Lie down, I
tell you! That's it. Don't move till I tell you to."
Clinch got up from where he was sitting, cast one murderous glance at
the prostrate forms, then followed Smith, noiselessly, over the stretch
of sphagnum moss.
       
When they reached the house they saw Eve standing on the steps in her
night-dress and bare feet, holding a lantern.
"Daddy," she whimpered, "I was frightened. I didn't know where you had
gone----"
Clinch put his arm around her, turned his bloody face and looked at
Smith.
"It's this," he said, "that I ain't forgetting, young fella. What you
done for me you done for her.
"I gotta live to make a lady of her. That's why," he added thickly, "I'm
much obliged to you, Hal Smith.... Go to bed, girlie----"
"You're bleeding, dad?"
"Aw, a twig scratched me. I been in the woods with Hal. G'wan to bed."
He went to the sink and washed his face, dried it, kissed the girl, and
gave her a gentle shove toward the stairs.
"Hal and I is sittin' up talkin' business," he remarked, bolting the
door and all the shutters.
       
When the girl had gone, Clinch went to a closet and brought back two
Winchester rifles, two shot guns, and a box of ammunition.
"Goin' to see it out with me, Hal?"
"Sure," smiled Smith.
"Aw' right. Have a drink?"
"No."
"Aw' right. Where'll you set?"
"Anywhere."
"Aw' right. Set over there. They may try the back porch. I'll jest set
here a spell, n'then I'll kind er mosey 'round.... Plug the first fella
that tries a shutter, Hal."
"You bet."
Clinch came over and held out his hand.
"You said a face-full that time when you says to me, 'Clinch,' you says,
'Eve is a lady.' ... I gotta fix her up. I gotta be alive to do it....
That's why I'm greatly obliged to yeh, Hal."
He took his rifle and walked slowly toward the pantry.
"You bet," he muttered, "she is a lady, so help me God."
EPISODE THREE
ON STAR PEAK
I
Mike Clinch regarded the jewels taken from José Quintana as legitimate
loot acquired in war.
He was prepared to kill anybody who attempted to take the gems from him.
At the very possibility his ruling passion blazed--his mania to make of
Eve Strayer a grand lady.
But now, what he had feared for years had happened. Quintana had found
him,--Quintana, after all these years, had discovered the identity and
dwelling place of the obscure American soldier who had robbed him in the
wash-room of a Paris café. And Quintana was now in America, here in this
very wilderness, tracking the man who had despoiled him.
       
Clinch, in his shirt-sleeves, carrying a rifle, came out on the log
veranda and sat down to think it over.
He began to realise that he was likely to have trouble with a man as
cold-blooded and as dogged as himself.
Nor did he doubt that those with Quintana were desperate men.
On whom could he count? On nobody unless he paid their hire. None among
the lawless men who haunted his backwoods "hotel" at Star Pond would
lift a finger to help him. Almost any among them would have robbed
him,--murdered him, probably,--if it were known that jewels were hidden
in the house.
He could not trust Jake Kloon; Leverett was as treacherous as only a
born coward can be; Sid Hone, Harvey Chase, Blommers, Byron
Hastings,--he knew them all too well to trust them,--a sullen,
unscrupulous pack, partly cowardly, always fierce,--as are any creatures
that live furtively, feed only by their wits, and slink through life
just outside the frontiers of law.
And yet, one of this gang had stood by him--Hal Smith--the man he
himself had been about to slay.
Clinch got up from the bench where he had been sitting and walked down
to the pond where Hal Smith sat cleaning trout.
"Hal," he said, "I been figuring some. Quintana don't dare call in the
constables. I can't afford to. Quintana and I've got to settle this on
our own."
Smith slit open a ten-inch trout, stripped it, flung the entrails out
into the pond, soused the fish in water, and threw it into a milk pan.
"Whose jewels were they in the beginning?" he enquired carelessly.
"How do I know?"
"If you ever found out----"
"I don't want to. I got them in the war, anyway. And it don't make no
difference how I got 'em; Eve's going to be a lady if I go to the chair
for it. So that's that."
Smith slit another trout, gutted it, flung away the viscera but laid
back the roe.
"Shame to take them in October," he remarked, "but people must eat."
"Same's me," nodded Clinch; "I don't want to kill no one, but Eve she's
gotta be a lady and ride in her own automobile with the proudest."
"Does Eve know about the jewels?"
Clinch's pale eyes, which had been roving over the wooded shores of Star
Pond, reverted to Smith.
"I'd cut my throat before I'd tell her," he said softly.
"She wouldn't stand for it?"
"Hal, when you said to me, 'Eve's a lady, by God!' you swallered the
hull pie. That's the answer. A lady don't stand for what you and I don't
bother about."
"Suppose she learns that you robbed the man who robbed somebody else of
these jewels."
Clinch's pale eyes were fixed on him: "Only you and me know," he said in
his pleasant voice.
"Quintana knows. His gang knows."
Clinch's smile was terrifying. "I guess she ain't never likely to know
nothing, Hal."
"What do you purpose to do, Mike?"
"Still hunt."
"For Quintana?"
"I might mistake him for a deer. Them accidents is likely, too."
"If Quintana catches you it will go hard with you, Mike."
"Sure. I know."
"He'll torture you to make you talk."
"You think I'd talk, Hal?"
Smith looked up into the light-coloured eyes. The pupils were pin
points. Then he went on cleaning fish.
"Hal?"
"What?"
"If they get me,--but no matter; they ain't a-going to get me."
"Were you going to tell me where those jewels are hidden, Mike?"
enquired the young man, still busy with his fish. He did not look around
when he spoke. Clinch's murderous gaze was fastened on the back of his
head.
"Don't go to gettin' too damn nosey, Hal," he said in his always
agreeable voice.
Smith soused all the fish in water again: "You'd better tell somebody if
you go gunning for Quintana."
"Did I ask your advice?"
"You did not," said the young man, smiling.
"All right. Mind your business."
Smith got up from the water's edge with his pan of trout:
"That's what I shall do, Mike," he said, laughing. "So go on with your
private war; it's no button off my pants if Quintana gets you."
He went away toward the ice-house with the trout. Eve Strayer, doing
chamber work, watched the young man from an upper room.
The girl's instinct was to like Smith,--but that very instinct aroused
her distrust. What was a man of his breeding and education doing at
Clinch's dump? Why was he content to hang around and do chores? A man of
his type who has gone crooked enough to stick up a tourist in an
automobile nourishes higher--though probably perverted--ambitions than a
dollar a day and board.
She heard Clinch's light step on the uncarpeted stair; went on making
up Smith's bed; and smiled as her step-father came into the room, still
carrying his rifle.
He had something else in his hand, too,--a flat, thin packet wrapped in
heavy paper and sealed all over with black wax.
"Girlie," he said, "I want you should do a little errand for me this
morning. If you're spry it won't take long--time to go there and get
back to help with noon dinner."
"Very well, dad."
"Go git your pants on, girlie."
"You want me to go into the woods?"
"I want you to go to the hole in the rocks under Star Peak and lay this
packet in the hootch cache."
She nodded, tucked in the sheets, smoothed blanket and pillow with deft
hands, went out to her own room. Clinch seated himself and turned a
blank face to the window.
It was a sudden decision. He realised now that he couldn't keep the
jewels in his house. War was on with Quintana. The "hotel" would be the
goal for Quintana and his gang. And for Smith, too, if ever temptation
overpowered him. The house was liable to an attempt at robbery any
night, now;--any day, perhaps. It was no place for the packet he had
taken from José Quintana.
Eve came in wearing grey shirt, breeches, and puttees. Clinch gave her
the packet.
"What's in it, dad?" she asked smilingly.
"Don't you get nosey, girlie. Come here."
She went to him. He put his left arm around her.
"You like me some, don't you, girlie?"
"You know it, dad."
"All right. You're all that matters to me ... since your mother went
and died ... after a year.... That was crool, girlie. Only a year.
Well, I ain't cared none for nobody since--only you, girlie."
He touched the packet with his forefinger:
"If I step out, that's yours. But I ain't a-going to step out. Put it
with the hootch. You know how to move that keystone?"
"Yes, dad."
"And watch out that no game protector and none of that damn
millionaire's wardens see you in the woods. No, nor none o' these here
fancy State Troopers. You gotta watch out this time, Eve. It means
everything to us--to you, girlie--and to me. Go tip-toe. Lay low, coming
and going. Take a rifle."
Eve ran to her bed-room and returned with her Winchester and belt.
"You shoot to kill," said Clinch grimly, "if anyone wants to stop you.
But lay low and you won't need to shoot nobody, girlie. G'wan out the
back way; Hal's in the ice house."
II
Slim and straight as a young boy in her grey shirt and breeches, Eve
continued on lightly through the woods, her rifle over her shoulder, her
eyes of gentian-blue always alert.
The morning turned warm; she pulled off her soft felt hat, shook out her
clipped curls, stripped open the shirt at her snowy throat where sweat
glimmered like melted frost.
The forest was lovely in the morning sunlight--lovely and still--save
for the blue-jays--for the summer birds had gone and only birds
destined to a long Northern winter remained.
Now and then, ahead of her, she saw a ruffed grouse wandering in the
trail. These, and a single tiny grey bird with a dreary note
interminably repeated, were the only living things she saw except here
and there a summer-battered butterfly of the Vanessa tribe flitting in
some stray sunbeam.
The haunting odour of late autumn was in the air--delicately acrid--the
scent of frost-killed brake and ripening wild grasses, of brilliant dead
leaves and black forest loam pungent with mast from beech and oak.
Eve's tread was light on the moist trail; her quick eyes missed
nothing--not the dainty imprint of deer, fresh made, nor the sprawling
insignia of rambling raccoons--nor the big barred owl huddled on a pine
limb overhead, nor, where the swift gravelly reaches of the brook caught
sunlight, did she miss the swirl and furrowing and milling of painted
trout on the spawning beds.
Once she took cover, hearing something stirring; but it was only a
yearling buck that came out of the witch-hazel to stare, stamp, then
wheel and trot away, displaying the danger signal.
In her cartridge-pouch she carried the flat, sealed packet which Clinch
had trusted to her. The sack swayed gently as she strode on, slapping
her left hip at every step; and always her subconscious mind remained on
guard and aware of it; and now and then she dropped her hand to feel of
the pouch and strap.
The character of the forest was now changing as she advanced. The first
tamaracks appeared, slim, silvery trunks, crowned with the gold of
autumn foliage, outer sentinels of that vast maze of swamp and stream
called Owl Marsh, the stronghold and refuge of forest wild
things--sometimes the sanctuary of hunted men.
From Star Peak's left flank an icy stream clatters down to the level
floor of the woods, here; and it was here that Eve had meant to quench
her thirst with a mouthful of sweet water.
But as she approached the tiny ford, warily, she saw a saddled horse
tied to a sapling and a man seated on a mossy log.
The trappings of horse, the grey-green uniform of the man, left no room
for speculation; a trooper of the State Constabulary was seated there.
His cap was off; his head rested on his palm. Elbow on knee, he sat
there gazing at the water--watching the slim fish, perhaps, darting up
stream toward their bridal-beds hidden far away at the headwaters.
A detour was imperative. The girl, from the shelter of a pine, looked
out cautiously at the trooper. The sudden sight of him had merely
checked her; now the recognition of his uniform startled her heart out
of its tranquil rhythm and set the blood burning in her cheeks.
There was a memory of such a man seared into the girl's very soul;--a
man whose head and shoulders resembled this man's,--who had the same
bright hair, the same slim and powerful body,--and who moved, too, as
this young man moved.
The trooper stirred, lifted his head to relight his pipe.
The girl knew him. Her heart stood still; then heart and blood ran riot
and she felt her knees tremble,--felt weak as she rested against the
pine's huge trunk and covered her face with unsteady fingers.
Until the moment, Eve had never dreamed what the memory of this man
really meant to her,--never dreamed that she had capacity for emotion so
utterly overwhelming.
Even now confusion, shame, fear were paramount. All she wanted was to
get away,--get away and still her heart's wild beating,--control the
strange tremor that possessed her, recover mind and sense and breath.
She drew her hand from her eyes and looked upon the man she had
attempted to kill,--upon the young man who had wrestled her off her feet
and handcuffed her,--and who had bathed her bleeding mouth with
sphagnum,--and who had kissed her hands----
She was trembling so that she became frightened. The racket of the brook
in his ears safeguarded her in a measure. She bent over nearly double,
her rifle at a trail, and cautiously began the detour.
       
When at length the wide circle through the woods had been safely
accomplished and Eve was moving out through the thickening ranks of
tamarack, her heart, which seemed to suffocate her, quieted; and she
leaned against a shoulder of rock, strangely tired.
After a while she drew from her pocket his handkerchief, and looked at
it. The square of cambric bore his initials, J. S. Blood from her lip
remained on it. She had not washed out the spots.
She put it to her lips again, mechanically. A faint odour of tobacco
still clung to it.
By every law of loyalty, pride, self-respect, she should have held this
man her enemy. Instead, she held his handkerchief against her
lips,--crushed it there suddenly, closing her eyes while the colour
surged and surged through her skin from throat to hair.
Then, wearily, she lifted her head and looked out into the grey and
empty vista of her life, where the dreary years seemed to stretch like
milestones away, away into an endless waste.
She put the handkerchief into her pocket, shouldered her rifle, moved on
without looking about her,--a mistake which only the emotion of the
moment could account for in a girl so habituated to caution,--for she
had gone only a few rods before a man's strident voice halted her:
"Halte là! Crosse en air!"
"Drop that rifle!" came another voice from behind her. "You're covered!
Throw your gun on the ground!"
She stood as though paralysed. To the right and left she heard people
trampling through the thicket toward her.
"Down with that gun, damn you!" repeated the voice, breathless from
running. All around her men came floundering and crashing toward her
through the undergrowth. She could see some of them.
As she stooped to place her rifle on the dead leaves, she drew the flat
packet from her cartridge sack at the same time and slid it deftly under
a rotting log. Then, calm but very pale, she stood upright to face
events.
The first man wore a red and yellow bandanna handkerchief over the lower
half of his face, pulled tightly across a bony nose. He held a long
pistol nearly parallel to his own body; and when he came up to where she
was standing he poked the muzzle into her stomach.
She did not flinch; he said nothing; she looked intently into the two
ratty eyes fastened on her over the edge of his bandanna.
Five other men were surrounding her, but they all wore white masks of
vizard shape, revealing chin and mouth.
They were different otherwise, also, wearing various sorts and patterns
of sport clothes, brand new, and giving them an odd, foreign appearance.
