table, and out of the front door, almost fling- 
ing him down the front steps. 
" Damn you for a liar and a scandalmonger 
and a malicious old woman! " he shouted, oblivious of many staring coachmen. "Never 
enter my house again." 
But the undaunted Travers steadied himself 
and replied with a leer, "Well, I made her 
give herself dead away, whether you like it or 
not. And it'll be all over town in a week." 
Mr. McLane turned his back, and ordering 
the astonished butler to take out the man's 
hat and greatcoat, returned to a scene of excitement. Madeleine had been placed full 
length on a sofa by an open window, and was 
evidently reviving. He asked the men who 
had overheard Travers' attack to follow him to 
his study. 
" I want every one of you to promise me 
that you will not repeat what that little brute 
said," he commanded. "Fortunately there 
were no women about. Fainting women are no 
novelty. And if that cur tells the story of his 
dastardly assault, give him the lie. Swear that 
he never said it. Persuade him that he was too 
drunk to remember." 
" I'll follow him and threaten to horsewhip 
him if he opens his mouth ! " cried Colonel Belmont, who had been a dashing cavalry officer 
during the war. He revered all women of his 
own class, even his wife, who rarely saw him; 
and he was so critical of feminine perfections 
of any sort that he changed his mistresses 
oftener than any man in San Francisco. " I'll 
not lose a moment." And he left the room 
as if charging the enemy. 
" Good. Will the rest of you promise?" 
" Of course we'll promise." 
But alas, wives have means of extracting 
secrets when their suspicions are alert and clam- 
oring that no husband has the wit to elude, 
man being too ingenuous to follow the circumlocutory methods of the subtler sex. Not that 
there was ever anything subtle about Mrs. Abbott's methods. Mr. Abbott had a perpetual 
catarrh and it had long since weakened his fibre. 
It was commonly believed that when Mrs. 
Abbott, her large bvdk arrayed in a red flannel 
 
nightgown, sat up in the connubial bed and 
threatened to pour hot mustard up his nose 
unless he opened his sluices of information he 
ingloriously succumbed. 
At all events, how or wherefore, Travers' 
prediction was fulfilled, although he shiveringly held his own tongue. The story was all 
over town not in a week but in three days. 
But of this Madeleine knew nothing. The doctor, who feared typhoid fever, ordered her to 
keep quiet and see no one until he discovered 
what was the matter with her. Her return to 
Society and Masters' to San Francisco coincided, but at least her little world knew that 
Dr. Talbot had been responsible for her retirement. It awaited future developments 
with a painful and a pleasurable interest. 
XX 
THE rest of the season, however, passed 
without notable incident. But it was 
known that Madeleine saw Masters constantly, 
and she was so narrowly observed during his 
second absence that the nervousness it induced 
made her forced gaiety almost hysterical. During the late spring her spirits grew more even 
and her migraines less frequently sustained as 
she was by the prospect of her old uninterrupted relations with Masters. 
But more than Mrs. Abbott divined the 
cause of her ill-suppressed expectancy and 
never had she received so many invitations to 
the country. Mrs. McLane spent her summers 
at Congress Springs, but even she pressed 
Madeleine to visit her. Sally Abbott lived 
across the Bay on Lake Merritt and begged for 
three days a week at least; while as for Mrs. 
Abbott and Mr. and Mrs. Tom, who lived with 
her, they would harken to no excuses. 
Madeleine was almost nonplussed, but if her 
 
firm and graceful refusals to leave the doctor 
had led to open war she would have accepted 
the consequences. She was determined that 
this summer she had lived for throughout 
seven long tormented months should be as vin- 
broken and happy as the other fates would permit. She had a full presentiment that it would 
be the last. 
Masters glided immediately into the old 
habit and saw her of tener when he could. Of 
coiu-se no phase ever quite repeats itself. The 
blithe unconsciousness of that first immortal 
summer was gone for ever; each was playing a 
part and dreading lest the other suspect it. 
Moreover, Masters was irritated almost beyond 
endurance at the constant postponement of the 
financial equipment for his newspaper. The 
man who had promised the largest contribution 
had died suddenly, and although his heir was 
more than eager to be associated with so il- 
lustrious an enterprise he must await the settlement of the estate. 
"I am beginning to believe I never shall 
have that newspaper," Masters said gloomily to 
Madeleine. "It looks like Fate. When the 
subject was first broached there was every 
 
prospect that I should get the money at once. 
It has an ugly look. Any man who has been 
through a war is something of a fatalist." 
They were less circumspect than of old and 
were walking out the old Mission Road. In 
such moods it was impossible for him to idle 
before a fire and read aloud. Madeleine had 
told her husband she would like to join Masters 
in his walks occasionally, and he had replied 
heartily: " Do you good. He'll lead you some 
pretty tramps! I can't keep up with him. You 
don't walk half enough. Neither do these 
others women, although my income would be 
cut in half if they did." 
It was a cool bracing day without dust or 
wind and Madeleine had started out in high 
spirits, induced in part by a new and vastly becoming walking suit of forest green poplin and 
a hat of the same shade rolled up on one side 
and trimmed with a drooping grey feather. 
Her gloves and shoes were of grey suede, there 
was soft lace about her white throat and a coquettish little veil that covered only her eyes. 
She always knew what to say when Masters 
was in one of his black moods, and today she 
reminded him of the various biographies of 
great men they had read together. Had not . 
all of them suflfered every disappointment and 
discouragement in the be'ginning of their 
careers? Overcome innumerable obstacles? 
Many had been called upon to endure grinding poverty as well until they forced recognition from the world, and he at least was 
spared that. If Life took with one hand while 
she gave with the other, the reverse was 
equally true^ and also no doubt it was a part 
of her beneficence that she not only strengthened the character by preliminary hardships, 
but amiably planned them that success might 
be all the sweeter when it came. 
Masters laughed. " Incontrovertible. Mind 
you practice your own philosophy when you 
need it. All reverses should be temporary if 
people are strong enough." 
She lost her color for a moment, but 
answered lightly: " That is an easy philosophy 
for you. If one thing failed you would simply 
move on to another. Men like you never really 
fail, for your rare abilities give you the 
strength and resource of ten men." 
"I wonder! The roots of strength sometimes lie in slimy and corrupting waters that 
 
spread their miasma upward when Life frowns 
too long and too darkly. Somedmes misfortunes pile up so remorselessly, this miasma 
whispers that a man's chief strength consists 
in going straight to the devil and be done with 
it all. A resounding slap on Life's face. An 
insolent assertion of the individual will against 
Society. Or perhaps it is merely a disposition 
to run full tilt, hoping for the coup de grace — 
much as I felt when I lay neglected on the 
battlefield for twenty-four hours and longed 
for some Yank to come along and blow out my 
brains.^ 
"That is no comparison," she said scorn- 
fully. "When the body is whole nothing is 
impossible. I should feel that the Universe 
was reeling if I saw you go down before adversity. I could as readily imagine myself 
letting go, and I am only a woman." 
" Oh, I should never fear for you," he said 
bitterly. "What with your immutable principles, your religion, and your proud position 
in the Society of San Francisco to sustain you 
you would come through the fiery furnace unscathed." 
"Yes, but the furnace! The furnace! " 
She threw out her hands with a gesture of despair, her high spirits routed before a sudden 
blinding vision of the future. "Does any 
woman ever escape that? " 
One of her hands brushed his and he caught 
it irresistibly. But he dropped it at once. 
There was a sound of horses' hoofs behind 
them. He had been vaguely aware of canter- 
ing hoof -beats in the distance for several 
minutes. 
Two men passed, and one of them took off 
his hat with a low mocking sweep and bowed 
almost to the saddle. It was old Ben Travers. 
" What on earth is he doing in town? " muttered Masters in exasperation. No one had 
told him of the New Year's Day episode, but 
he knew him for what he was. 
Madeleine was following the small trim 
figure on the large chestnut with expanded 
eyes, but she answered evenly enough : " He 
has some ailment and is remaining in town 
under Howard's care." 
"Liver, no doubt," said Masters viciously. 
"Too bad his spleen doesn't burst once far 
all." 
He continued unguardedly, "Well, if he 
 
tries to make mischief, Howard will tell him 
bluntly that we walk together with his permission and invite him to go to the devil.'' 
Her own guard was up at once, although it 
was not any gossip carried to Howard she 
feared. " He has probably already forgotten 
us," she said coldly. " Have you finished that 
paper for Putnam^s? '' 
" Three days ago, and begun another for the 
Edinburgh Review. That is the first time I 
have been invited to write for an English review." 
" You see ! " she cried gaily. " You are 
famous already. And ambitious! You were 
once thinking of writing for our Overland 
Monthly only. Bret Harte told me you had 
promised him three papers this year." 
" I shall write them." 
" Perfunctory patriotism. You'd have to 
write the entire magazine and bring it out 
weekly to get rid of all your ideas and superfluous energy." 
" Well, and wouldn't the good Calif omians 
rather read any magazine but their own? Even 
Harte is far better known in the East than here. 
I doubt if I've heard one of his things men- 
 
tioned but 'The Heathen Chinee' He has 
been here so long they regard him as a mere 
native. If I am advancing my reputation in 
the East I am making it much faster than if 
I depended upon the local reputation alone. 
San Francisco is remarkably human,'' 
" When I first came here — it seems a life- 
time ago! — I never saw an Eastern magazine 
of the higher class and rarely a book. I believe you have done as much to wake them up 
as even the march of time. They read news- 
papers if they won't read their own poor little 
Overland. And you are popular personally 
and inspire a sort of uneasy emulation. You 
are a sort of illuminated bridge. Now tell 
me what your new paper is about.'' 
AWHILE later they came to the old Mission Dolores, long ago the center of a 
flourishing colony of native Indians, who, under the driving energy of the padres, manufac- 
tured practically every simple necessity known 
to Spain. There was nothing left but the crumbling church and its neglected graveyard, alone 
in a waste of sand. The graves of the priests 
and grandees were overrun with periwinkle, and 
the only other flower was the indestructible 
Gistilian rose. The heavy dvdl green bushes 
with their fluted dull pink blooms surrounded 
by tight little buds, were as dusty as the memory of the Spaniard in California. 
They went into the church to rest. Madeleine 
had never taken any interest in the history of 
her adopted state, and as they sat in a pew at 
the back, surrounded by silence and a deep twilight gloom. Masters told her the tragic story 
of Rezanov and Concha Arguello, who would 
have married before that humble altar and 
the history of California changed if the ironic 
fates had permitted. The story had been told 
him by Mrs. Hathaway, who was the daughter 
of one of the last of the grandees, and whose 
mother had lived in the Presidio when 
Rezanov sailed in through the Golden Gate 
and Concha Arguello had been La Favorita of 
Alta California. 
The little church was very quiet. The rest 
of the world seemed far away. Madeleine's 
fervid yielding imagination swept her back to 
that long-forgotten past when a woman to 
whom the earlier fates had been as kind as to 
herself had scaled all but the highest peaks of 
happiness and descended into the prof oundest 
depths of despair. Her sympathies, enhanced 
by her own haunting premonition of disaster, 
shattered her guard. She dropped her head 
into her hands and wept hopelessly. Masters 
felt his own moorings shake. He half rose 
to flee. But he too had been living in the 
romantic and passionate past and he too had 
been visited by moments of black forebodings. 
Love had tormented him to the breaking point 
before this and his ambition had often been 
submerged in his impatience for the excess of 
 
work which his newspaper would demand, exhausting to body and imagination alike. He 
had long ceased to doubt that she loved him, 
but her self-command had protected them 
both. He had believed it would never desert 
her and when it did his pulses had their way. 
He took her in his arms and strained her to 
him as if with the strength of his muscles and 
his will he would defy the blundering fates. 
Madeleine made no resistance. She was 
oblivious of everything but the ecstasy of the 
moment. When he kissed her she clung to 
him as ardently, and felt as mortals may, when, 
in dissolution, they have the vision of immortal bliss. She had the genius for completion and neither the past nor the future intruded upon the perfect moment when love 
was all. 
But the moment was brief. A priest entered and knelt before the altar. She disengaged herself and adjusted her hat with hands 
that trembled violently, then almost ran out 
of the church. Masters followed her. As they 
descended the steps Travers and his companion 
passed again, after their short canter down the 
peninsula. He stared so hard at Madeleine's 
 
revealing face that he almost forgot to take 
off his hat, and half reined in as if he would 
pause and gratify his curiosity} but thought 
better o£ it and rode on. 
Masters and Madeleine did not exchange a 
word until they had walked nearly a mile. 
But his brain was working as clearly as if passion had never clouded it, and although he 
could see no hope for the future he was determined to gain time and sacrifice anything 
rather than lose what little he might still 
have of her. He said finally, in a matter-of-fact voice: 
" I want you to use your will and imagination and forget that we ever entered that 
church.''
" Forget ! The memory of it will scourge 
me as long as I live. I have been unfaithful 
to my husband! '' 
" Oh, not quite as bad as that! " 
" What difference? I had surrendered completely and forgotten my vows, my religion, 
every principle that has guided my life. If 
— if — circumstances had been different that 
would not have been the end. I am a bad 
wicked woman.^ 
 
"Oh, no, you are not. You are a terribly 
good one. If you were not you would take 
your life in your hands and make it over." 
He did not dare mention the word divorce, 
and lest it travel from his mind to hers and 
cause his immediate repudiation, he added 
hastily: 
" You were immortal for a moment and it 
should be your glory, not a whip to scourge 
you. The time will come when you will remember it with gratitude and without a blush. 
You know now what you could be and feel. 
If we part at least you will have been saved 
from the complete aridity — '' 
" Part? " She looked at him for the first 
time, and although she had believed she never 
could look at him again without turning scarlet, 
there was only terror in her eyes. 
" I have been afraid of banishment." 
" It was my fault as much as yours." 
"I am not so sure. We won't argue that 
point. Is anything perfect arguable? But if 
I am to stay in San Francisco I must see you." 
" I'll never see you alone again." 
" I have no intention of pressing that point ! 
But the open is safe and you must walk with 
me every day." 
 
" I don't know! Oh — I don't know! And 
I think that I should tell Howard." 
" You will not tell Howard because you are 
neither cowardly nor cruel. Nor will you ruin 
a perfect memory that belongs to us alone. 
You do love me and that is the end of it — or 
the beginning of God knows what! " 
" Love ! " She shivered. " Yes, I love 
you. Why do poets waste so many beautiful 
words over love? It is the most terrible thing 
in the world." 
"Let us try to forget it for the present," 
he said harshly. " Forget everything we can- 
not have — " 
"You have your work. You have only to 
work harder than ever. What have I? " 
" We will walk together every day. We can 
take a book out on the beach and sit on the 
rocks. Read more fiction. That is its mission 
— to translate one for a time from the terrible 
realities of life. Your religion should be of 
some use to you. It is almost a pity there is 
no poverty out here. Sink your prejudices and 
seek out poor Sibyl Forbes. Every woman in 
town has cut her. In healing her wounds you 
could forget your own. Above all, use your 
 
"will. We are neither of us weaklings, and it 
could be a thousand times worse. Nothing 
shall take from us what we have, and there 
may be a way out." 
" There is none," she said sadly. " But I 
will do as you tell me. And PU forget — not 
remember — if I can." 
XXII 
THE END came swiftly. The next day 
Ben Travers drove down to Rincona. 
Mrs. Abbott listened to his garnished tale with 
bulging eyes and her three chins quivering with 
excitement. She had heard no gossip worth 
mentioning since she left town, and privately 
she hated the summer and Alta. 
" You should have seen her face when she 
came out of that church," cried Travers for the 
third timej he was falling into the senile habit 
of repeating himself. " It was fairly distorted 
and she looked as if she had been crying for a 
week. Mark my words, Masters had been 
making the hottest kind of love to her — he 
was little more composed than she. Bet you an 
eagle to a dime they elope within a week." 
" Serve Howard Talbot right for marrying 
a woman twenty years younger than himself 
and a Northerner to boot. Do you think he 
suspects? " 
"Not he. Now, I must be off. If I didn't 
 
call on the Hathaways and Montgomerys while 
I'm down here they'd never forgive me.'' 
" Both have house parties," said Mrs. Abbott 
enviously. " Just like you to get it first! I'd 
go with you but I must write to Antoinette 
McLane. She'll have to believe that her paragon is headed for the rocks this time." 
Mrs. McLane was having an attack of the 
blues when the letter arrived and did not open 
her mail until two days later. Then she drove 
at once to San Francisco. She was too wise in 
women to remonstrate with Madeleine, but she 
went directly to Dr. Talbot's office. It was the 
most unpleasant duty she had ever undertaken, 
but she knew that Talbot would not doubt his 
wife's fidelity, and she was determined to save 
Madeleine. She had considered the alternative of going to Masters, but even her strong 
spirit quailed before the prospect of that interview. Besides, if he were as deeply in love 
with Madeleine as she believed him to be, it 
would do no good. She had little faith in 
the self-abnegation of men where their passions were concerned. 
Dr. Talbot was in his office and saw her at 
once, and they talked for an hour. His face 
 
was purple and she feared a stroke. But he 
heard her quietly, and told her she had proved 
her friendship by coming to him before it was 
too late. When she left him he sat for another 
hour, alone. 
XXIII 
IT WAS six o'clock. San Francisco was enjoying one of its rare heat waves and 
Madeleine had put on a frock of white lawn 
made with a low neck and short sleeves, and 
tied a soft blue sash round her waist. As the 
hour of her husband's reasonably prompt homing approached she seated herself at the piano. 
She could not trust herself to sing, and played 
the " Adelaide." The past three days had not 
been as unhappy as she had expected. She had 
visited Sibyl Forbes, living in lonely splendor, 
and listened enthralled to that rebellious young 
woman (who had received her with passionate 
gratitude) as she poured out humiliations, bitter resentment, and matrimonial felicity. 
Madeleine had consoled and rejoiced and 
promised to talk to the all-powerful Mrs. McLane. 
Twice she had gone to hear John Mc- 
Cullough at his new California Theatre, with 
another dutiful doctor's wife who lived in the 
 
hotel, and she had walked for three hours with 
Masters every afternoon. He had always 
found it easy to turn her mind into any channel he chose, and he had never exerted himself 
to be more entertaining even with her. 
Today he had been jubilant and had swept 
her with him on his high tide of anticipation 
and triumph. Another patriotic San Franciscan had come to the rescue and the himdred 
thousand dollars lay to Masters* credit in the 
Bank of California. He had taken his 
offices an hour after the deposit was made; his 
business manager was engaged, and every 
writer of ability on the other newspapers was 
his to command. " Masters' Newspaper '' had 
been the talk of the journalistic world for 
months. He had picked his staff and he now 
awaited only the presses he had ordered that 
morning from New York. 
Madeleine had sighed as she listened to him 
dilate upon an active brilliant future in which 
she had no place, but she was in tune with him 
always and she could only be happy with him 
now. Moreover, it was an additional safe- 
guard. He would be too busy for dreams and 
human longings. As for herself she would go 
 
along somehow. Tears, after all, were a wonderful solace. Fear had driven her down a 
light romantic by-way of her nature. Even if 
days passed without a glimpse of him she could 
dwell on the pleasant thought that he was not 
far away, and now and then they would take 
a long walk together. 
The door opened and Dr. Talbot entered. 
His face was no longer purple. It was sallow 
and drawn. Her hands trailed off the keys, 
her arms fell limply. Not even during an epidemic, when he found little time for sleep, 
had his roimd face lost its ruddy brightness, 
his black eyes their look of jovial good-fellow- 
ship, his mouth its amiable cynicism. 
" Something has happened," she said faintly. 
" What is it? " 
" Would you mind sitting here? " He fell 
heavily into a chair and motioned to one opposite. She left the shelter of the piano with 
dragging feet, her own face drained of its 
color. Ben Travers! She knew what was 
coming. 
His arms lay limply along the arms of his 
chain As she gazed at him fascinated it 
seemed to her that he grew older every minute. 
And she had never seen any one look as sad. 
 
" I have been a bad husband to you," he said. 
And the life had gone out of even his voice. 
" Oh! No! No! you have been the best, the 
kindest and most indulgent of husbands." 
" I have been worse than a bad husband," 
he went on in the same monotonous voice. " I 
have been a failure. I never tried to 
understand you. I didn't want to understand 
what might interfere with my own selfish life. 
You have a mind and I ordered you to feed it 
husks. You asked me for the companionship 
that was your right and I told you to go and 
amuse yourself as best you could. I fooled 
myself with the excuse that you were perfect 
as you were, but the bald truth was that I liked 
the society of men better, and hated any form 
of mental exertion unconnected with my profession. I plucked the rarest flower a good-for- 
nothing man ever found and I didn't even re- 
member to give it fresh water. It is a wonder 
you didn't wilt before you did. You were wilting — dying mentally — when Masters came 
along. You f oimd in him all that I had denied you. And now I have the punishment I 
deserve. You no longer love me. You love 
him." 
 
"Oh — Oh — " Madeleine twisted her 
hands in her lap and stared at them. " You — 
you — cannot help being what you are. I long 
since ceased to find fault with you — " 
" Yes, when you ceased to love me! When 
you found that we were hopelessly mismated. 
When you gave up." 
"I — I'm very fond of you still. How 
could I help it when you are so good to me? " 
" I have no doubt of your friendship — or 
of your fidelity. But you love Masters. Can 
you deny it? " 
« No." 
" Are you preparing to elope with him? " 
"Oh! No! No! How could you dream 
of such a thing? " 
" I am told that every one is expecting it." 
" I would no more elope than I would ask 
for a divorce. I may be sinful enough to love 
a man who is not my husband, but I am not 
bad enough for that. And people are very 
stupid. They know that Langdon Masters' 
future lies here. If I were as wicked a woman 
as that, at least he is not a fool. Why, only 
today he received the capital for his news- 
paper." 
 
"And do you know so little of men ana 
women as to imagine that you two could go on 
indefinitely content with the mere fact that you 
love each other? I may not have known my own 
wife because I chose to be blind, but a doctor 
knows as much about women in general as a 
father confessor. Men and women are not 
made like that! It seems that every one but 
myself has known for months that Masters is 
in love with youj and Masters is a man of 
strong passions and relentless will. He has 
used his will so far to curb his passions, principally, no doubt, on my account; he is my 
friend and a man of honor. But there are 
moments in life when honor as well as virtue 
goes overboard." 
" But — but — we have agreed never to see 
each other alone again — except out of doors.'' 
" That is all very well, but there are always 
imexpected moments of isolation. The devil 
sees to that. And while I have every confidence in your virtue — under normal conditions — I know the helpless yielding of women 
and. the ruthless passions of men. It would 
be only a question of time. I may have been a 
bad husband but I am mercifully permitted to 
save you, and I shall do so." 
 
He rose heavily from his chain " Do you 
know where I can find Masters? '' 
She sprang to her feet and for the first time 
in her life her voice was shrill. 
" You are not going to kill him? " 
" Oh, no. I am not going to kill him. There 
has been scandal enough already. And I have 
no desire to kill him. He has behaved very 
well, all things considered. I am almost as 
sorry for him as I am for you — and myself! 
Do you know where he is? '' 
" He is probably dining at the Union Club 
— or he may be at his new oflices. They are 
somewhere on Commercial Street." 
He went out and Madeleine sat staring at 
the door with wide eyes and parted lips. She 
felt no inclination to tears, nor even to faint, 
although her body could hardly have been 
colder in death. She felt suspended in a 
vacuum, awaiting something more dreadful 
than even this interview with her husband had 
 been. 
XXIV 
DR. TALBOT turned towaixl the stairs, 
but it occurred to him that Masters 
might still be in his rooms and he walked to 
the other end of the hall. A ringing voice 
answered his knock. He entered. Masters 
grasped him by the hand, exclaiming, " I was 
going to look you up tonight and tell you the 
good news. Has Madeleine told you? I have 
my capital! And I have just received a telegram from New York saying that my presses 
will start by freight tomorrow. That means 
we^U have our newspaper in threie weeks at 
the outside — But what is the matter, old 
chap? I never saw you look seedy before. 
Suppose we take a week off and go on a bear 
hunt? It's the last vacation I can have in a 
month of Sundays." 
" I have come to tell you that you must leave 
San Francisco." 
"Oh! " Masters' exuberance dropped like 
a shining cloak from a figure of steel. He 
 
walked to his dtadel, the hearth rug, and lit a 
cigarette. 
" I suppose you have been listening to the 
chatter of that infernal old gossip, Ben 
Travers." 
" Ben Travers knows me too well to bring 
any of his gossip to me. But he has carried 
his stories up and down the state j not only 
his — more recent discoveries, but evidence he 
appears to have been collecting for months. 
But he is only one of many. It seems the 
whole town has known for a year or more that 
you see Madeleine for three or four hours 
every day, that you have managed to have 
those hours together, no matter what her engagements, that you are desperately in love 
with each other. The gossip has been infernal. 
I do not deny that a good deal of the blame 
rests on my shoulders. I not only neglected 
her but I encouraged her to see you. But I 
thought her above scandal or even gossip, and 
I never dreamed it was in her to love — to 
lose her head over any man. She was sweet 
and affectionate but cold — my fault again. 
Any man who had the good f ortvme to be mar- 
ried to Madeleine could make her love him if 
 
he were not a selfish fool. Well, I have been 
punished 5 but if I have lost her I can save her 
— and her reputation. You must go. There 
is no other way." 
"That is nonsense. You exaggerate be- 
cause you are suffering from a shock. You 
know that I cannot leave San Francisco with 
this great newspaper about to be launched. If 
it is as bad as you make out I will give you my 
word not to see Madeleine again. And as I 
shall be too busy for Society it will quickly forget me.'' 
" Oh, no, it will not. It will say that you 
are both cleverer than you have been in the 
past. If you leave San Francisco — California 
— for good and all — it may forget youj not 
otherwise." 
"Do you know that you are asking me to 
give up my career? That I shall never have 
such an opportimity in my life again? My 
whole future — for usefulness as well as for 
the realization of my not ignoble ambitions — 
lies in San Francisco and nowhere else? " 
" Don't imagine I have not thought of that. 
And San Francisco can ill afford to spare you. 
You are one of the greatest assets this city ever 
 
had. But she will have to do without you even 
if you never can be replaced. I had the whole 
history of the affair from Mrs. McLane this 
afternoon. No one believes — yet — that 
things have reached a climax between you and 
Madeleine. On the contrary, they are expecting an elopement. But if you remain, nothing 
on God's earth can prevent an abominable scan- 
dal. Madeleine's name will be dragged 
through the mud. She will be cut, cast out of 
Society. Even I could not protect her; I 
should be regarded as a blind fool, or worse
for it will be known that Mrs. McLane warned 
me. No woman can keep her mouth shut. 
She and other powerful women — even that 
damned old cut-throat, Mrs. Abbott — are 
standing by Madeleine loyally, but they are all 
alert for a denouement nevertheless. If you 
go, that will satisfy them. Madeleine will be 
merely the heroine of an unhappy love-affair, 
and although nothing will stop their damned 
clacking tongues for a time, they will pity her 
and do their best to make her forget.'' 
" I cannot go. It is impossible. You are 
asking too much. And, I repeat, I'll never see 
her again. Mrs. McLane can be made to 
 
understand the truth. I'll leave the hotel to- 
morrow." 
" You love Madeleine, do you not? " 
" Yes — I do." 
" Then will you save her from ruin in the 
only way possible. It is not only her reputation that I fear. You know yourself, I fancy. 
You may avoid her, but you will hardly deny 
that if circumstances threw you together, alone, 
temptation would be irresistible — the more so 
as you would have ached for the mere sound of 
her voice every minute. I know now what it 
means to love Madeleine." 
Masters turned his back on Talbot and 
leaned his arms on the mantel-shelf. He saw 
hideous pictures in the empty grate. 
The doctc«- had not sat down. Not a muscle 
of his big strong body had moved as he stood 
and pronounced what was worse than a sentence 
of' death on Langdon Masters. He averted 
his dull inexorable eyes, for he dared not give 
way to sympathy. For the moment he wished 
himself dead — and for more reasons than 
one! But he was far too healthy and practical 
to contemplate a dramatic exit. No end would 
be served if he did. Madeleine's sensitive 
 
spirit would recoil in horror from a xmion 
haunted by the memory of the crime and 
anguish of the husband she had vowed to love 
and obey. Not Madeleine! His remorseless 
solution was the only one. 
Masters turned after a time and his face 
looked as old as Talbot's. 
" I'll go if you are quite sure it is necessary. 
If you have not spoken in the heat of the 
moment." 
" If I thought for a month it would make no 
difference. If you remain, no matter what 
your circumspection Madeleine will rank in the 
eyes of the world with those harlots over on 
Dupont Street. And be as much of an out- 
cast. You know this town. You've lived in 
it for a year and a half. It's not London, nor 
even New York. Nothing is hidden here. It 
lives on itself  it has nothing else to live on. 
It is almost fanatically loyal to its own until its 
loyalty is thrown in its face. Then it is bitterer 
than the wrath of God. You understand all 
this, don't you? " 
"Yes, I understand. But — couldn't you 
send Madeleine to her parents in Boston for 
six months — she has never paid them a visit 
 
— but no, I suppose the scandal would be 
worse — " 
" Far worse. It would look either as if she 
had run away from me or as if I had packed 
her off in disgrace. If I could leave my practice I'd take her abroad for two years, but I 
cannot. Nor — to be frank — do I see why 
I should be sacrificed f urther." 
"Oh, assuredly not." Masters* tones were 
even and excessively polite. 
" You will take the train tomorrow morning 
for New York? " 
" I cannot leave San Francisco until after the 
opening of the banks. The money must be refunded. Besides, I prefer to go by steamer. 
There is one lea\dng tomorrow, I believe. I 
want time to think before I arrive in New 
York.'' 
"And you will promise to have no correspondence with Madeleine whatever? " 
" You might leave us that much! " 
"The afFair shall end here and now. Do 
you promise? " 
"Very well. But I should like to see her 
once more." 
" That you shall not! I shall not leave her 
until you are outside the Golden Gate." 
 
"Very well. If that is all — '' 
" Good-by. You have behaved — well, as 
our code commands you to behave. I expected 
nothing less. Don't imagine I don't appreciate 
what this means to you. But you are a man 
of great ability. You will find as hospitable a 
field for your talents elsewhere. San Francisco is the chief loser. I wish you the best of 
luck." 
And he returned to Madeleine. 
XXV 
MADELEINE came of a brave race and 
she was a woman of intense pride. She 
spent a week at Congress Springs and she took 
her courage in her teeth and spent another at 
Rincona. There was a house party and they 
amused themselves in the somnolent way 
peculiar to Alta. Bret Harte was there, a 
dapper little man, whose shoes were always a 
size too small, but popular with women as he 
played an excellent game of croquet and talked 
as delightfully as he wrote. His good humor 
could be counted on if no one mentioned " The 
Heathen Chinee." He had always admired 
Madeleine and did his best to divert her. 
Both Mrs. McLane and Mrs. Abbott were 
disappointed that they were given no opportunity to condole with herj but althoug she gave a fair imitation of the old Madeleine 
Talbot, and even mentioned Masters' name 
with a casual indifference, no one was deceived 
for a moment. That her nerves were on the 
 
rack was as evident as that her watchful pride 
was in arms, and although it was obvious that 
she had foresworn the luxury of tears, her eyes 
had a curious habit of looking through and beyond these good ladies until they had the uncomfortable sensation that they were not there 
and some one else was. They wondered if 
Langdon Masters were dead and she saw his 
ghost. 
The summer was almost over. After a visit 
to Sally Abbott on Lake Merritt, she returned 
to town with the rest of the fashionable world. 
People had never been kinder to herj and if 
their persistent attentions were strongly diluted 
with curiosity, who shall blame them? It was 
not every day they had a blighted heroine of 
romance, who, moreover, looked as if she were 
going into a decline. She grew thinner every 
day. Her white skin was colorless and transparent. They might not have her for long, 
poor darling! How they pitied her! But 
they never wished they had let her alone. It 
was all for the best. And what woman ever 
had so devoted a husband? He went with her 
everywhere. He, too, looked as if he had been 
through the mill, poor dear, but at least he had 
 
won a close race, and he deserved and received 
the sympathy of his faithful friends. As for 
that ungrateful brute, Langdon Masters, he had 
not written a line to any one in San Francisco 
since he left. Not one had an idea what had 
become of him. Did he secretly correspond 
with Madeleine? (They would have per- 
mitted her that much.) Would he blow out 
his brains if she died of consumption? He was 
no philanderer. If he hadn't really loved her 
nothing would have torn him from San Francisco and his brilliant career of course. Duelling days were over, and the doctor was not the 
man to shoot another down in cold blood, with 
no better excuse than the poor things had given 
him. It was all very thrilling and romantic. 
Even the girls talked of little else, and regarded their complacent prosperous swains with 
disfavor. " The Long Long Weary Day ''
was their favorite song. They wished that 
Madeleine lived in a moated grange instead of 
the Occidental Hotel. 
Madeleine had had her own room from the 
beginning of her married life in San Francisco, 
as the doctor was frequently called out at night. 
When Howard had returned and told her that 
 
Masters would leave on the morrow and that 
she was not to see him again, she had walked 
quietly into her bedroom and locked the door 
that led to hisj and she had never turned the 
key since. 
Talbot made no protest. He had no spirit 
left where Madeleine was concemed, but it 
was his humble hope to win her back by unceasing devotion and consideration, aided by time. 
He not only never mentioned Masters^ name, 
but he wooed her in blundering male fashion. 
Not a day passed that he did not send her 
flowers. He bought her trinkets and several 
valuable jewels, and he presented her with a 
victoria, drawn by a fine sorrel mare, and a 
coachman in livery on the box. 
Madeleine treated him exactly as she treated 
her host at a dinner. She was as amiable as 
ever at the breakfast table, and when he deserted his club of an evening, she sat at her 
embroidery frame and told him the gossip of 
the day. 
XXVI 
ONE evening at the end of two long hours, 
when he had heroically suppressed his 
longing for a game of poker, he said hesitatingly, " I thought you were so fond of reading. I don't see any books about. All the 
women are reading a novel called ^ Quits.' I'll 
send it up to you in the morning if you haven't 
read it." 
For the first time since Masters' departure 
the blood rose in Madeleine's face, but she 
answered calmly: 
" Thanks. I have little time for reading, as 
I have developed quite a passion for embroidery and I practice a good deal. This is a 
handkerchief-case for Mrs. McLane. Of 
course I must read ^ Quits,' however, and also 
*The Initials.' One mustn't be behind the 
times. If you'll step into Beach's tomorrow 
and order them I'll be grateful." 
" Of course I will. Should — should — you 
like me to read to you? I'm a pretty bad 
reader, I guess, but I'll do my best." 
 
" Oh — is there ^ earthquake? " 
" No! But your nerves are in a bad state. 
