there must be a new birth of the spirit. Think upon my message; I
shall speak to you again, and the compulsion of my law will rest
upon you. The powers of this world come to an end, but the power of
good will is everlasting, and the body can sooner escape from its
own shadow than mankind can escape from brotherhood.”
He ceased, and a strange thing happened. Half the crowd rose to its
feet; and they cried, “Go, on!” Twice he tried to retire to his
seat, but they cried, “Go on, go on!” Said he, “My brothers, this is
not my meeting, there are other speakers--” But they cried, “We want
to hear you!” He answered, “You have your policies to decide, and
your leaders must have their say. But I will speak to you again
to-morrow. I am told that your city permits street speaking on
Western City Street on Sundays. In the morning I am going to church,
to see how they worship my Father in this city of many mobs; but at
noon I will hold a meeting on the corner of Fifth and Western City
Streets, and if you wish, you may hear me. Now I ask you to excuse
me, for I am weary.” He stood for a moment, and I saw that, although
he had never raised his voice nor made a violent gesture, his eyes
were dark and hollow with fatigue, and drops of sweat stood upon his
forehead.
He turned and left the platform, and Old Joe and I hurried around to
join him. We found him with Korwsky the little Russian tailor whose
son he had healed. Korwsky claimed him to spend the night at his
home; the friend with the delivery wagon was on hand, and they were
ready to start. I asked Carpenter to what church he was going in the
morning, and he startled me by the reply, “St. Bartholomew’s.” I
promised that I would surely be on hand, and then Old Joe and I set
out to walk home.
“Well?” said I. “What do you think of him?”
The ex-centre-rush walked for a bit before he answered. “You know,
Billy boy,” said he, “we do lead rotten useless lives.”
“Good Lord!” I thought; it was the first sign of a soul I had ever
noted in Old Joe! “Why,” I argued, “you sell paper, and that’s
useful, isn’t it?”
“I don’t know whether it is or not. Look at what’s printed on
it--mostly advertisements and bunk.” And again we walked for a bit.
“By the way,” said the ex-centre-rush, “before he got through, I saw
that aura, or whatever you call it. I guess I’m getting nutty, too!”
XXXVI
The first thing I did on Sunday morning was to pick up the “Western
City Times,” to see what it had done to Carpenter. I found that he
had achieved the front page, triple column, with streamer head all
the way across the page:
PROPHET IN TOWN, HEALS SICK, RAVES AT RICH AMERICA IS MOBLAND,
ALLEGED IN RED RIOT OF TALK
There followed a half page story about Carpenter’s strenuous day in
Western City, beginning with a “Bolshevik stump speech” to a mob of
striking tailors. It appears that the prophet had gone to the Hebrew
quarter of the city, and finding a woman railing at a butcher
because of “alleged extortion,” had begun a speech, inciting a mob,
so that the police reserves had to be called out, and a riot was
narrowly averted. From there the prophet had gone to the Labor
Temple, announcing himself to the reporters as “fresh from God,”
 with a message to “Mobland,” his name for what he prophesied America
would be under his rule. He had then healed a sick boy, the
performance being carefully staged in front of moving picture
cameras. The account of the “Times” did not directly charge that the
performance was a “movie stunt,” but it described it in a mocking
way which made it obviously that. The paper mentioned T-S in such a
way as to indicate him as the originator of the scheme, and it had
fun with Mary Magna, pawning her paste jewels. It published the
flash-light picture, and also a picture of Carpenter walking down
the street, trailed by his mob.
In another column was the climax, the “red riot of talk” at Grant
Hall. James, the striking carpenter, had indulged in virulent and
semi-insane abuse of the rich; after which the new prophet had
stirred the mob to worse frenzies. The “Times” quoted sample
sentences, such as: “Do not think that I am come to bring you ease
and comfort; I am come to bring strife and disorder to this world.”
I turned to the editorial page, and there was a double-column
leader, made extra impressive by leads. “AN INFAMOUS BLASPHEMY,” was
the heading. Perhaps you have a “Times” in your own city; if so, you
will no doubt recognize the standard style:
“For many years this newspaper has been pointing out to the people
of Western City the accumulating evidence that the men who
manipulate the forces of organized labor are Anarchists at heart,
plotting to let loose the torch of red revolution over this fair
land. We have clearly showed their nefarious purpose to overthrow
the Statue of Liberty and set up in its place the Dictatorship of
the Walking Delegate. But, evil as we thought them, we were naive
enough to give them credit for an elemental sense of decency. Even
though they had no respect for the works of man, we thought at least
they would spare the works of God, the most sacred symbols of divine
revelation to suffering humanity. But yesterday there occurred in
this city a performance which for shameless insolence and
blasphemous perversion exceeds anything but the wildest flight of a
devil’s imagination, and reveals the bosses of the Labor Trust as
wanton defilers of everything that decent people hold precious and
holy.
“What was the spectacle? A moving picture producer, moved by blind,
and we trust unthinking lust for gain, produces in our midst an
alleged ‘prophet,’ dressed in a costume elaborately contrived to
imitate and suggest a Sacred Presence which our respect for religion
forbids us to name; he brings this vile, perverted creature forward,
announcing himself to the newspapers as ‘fresh from God,’ and
mouthing phrases of social greed and jealousy with which for the
past few years the Hun-agents and Hun-lovers in our midst have made
us only too sickenly familiar. This monstrous parody of divine
compassion is escorted to that headquarters of Pro-Germanism and red
revolution, the Labor Temple, and there performs, in the presence of
moving picture cameras, a grotesque parody upon the laying on of
hands and the healing of the sick. The ‘Times’ presents a photograph
of this incredible infamy. We apologize to our readers for thus
aiding the designs of cunning publicity-seekers, but there is no
other way to make clear to the public the gross affront to decency
which has been perpetrated, and the further affronts which are being
planned. This appears to be a scheme for making a moving picture
‘star’; this ‘Carpenter’--note the silly pun--is to become the
latest sensation in million dollar movie dolls, and the American
public is to be invited to pay money to witness a story of sacred
things played by a real ‘prophet’ and worker of ‘miracles’!”
“But the worst has yet to be told. The masters of the Labor Trust,
not to be outdone in bidding for unholy notoriety, had the insolence
to invite this blasphemous charlatan to their riot of revolutionary
ranting called a ‘protest meeting.’ He and other creatures of his
ilk, summoning the forces which are organizing red ruin in our city,
proceed to rave at the police and the courts for denying to mobs of
strikers the right to throw brickbats at honest workers looking for
jobs, and to hold the pistol of the boycott at the heads of
employers who dare to stand for American liberty and democracy! We
have heard much mouthing of class venom and hate in this community,
but never have our ears been affronted by anything so unpardonable
as this disguising of the doctrine of Lenin and Trotsky in the robes
of Christian revelation. This ‘prophet fresh from God,’ as he styles
himself, is a man of peace and brotherly love--oh, yes, of course!
We know these wolves in sheeps’ clothing, these pacifists and lovers
of man with the gold of the Red International in their pockets, and
slavering from their tongues the fine phrases of idealism which
conveniently protect them from the strong hand of the law! We have
seen their bloody work for four years in Russia, and we tell them
that if they expect to prepare the confiscation of property and the
nationalization of women in this country while disguising themselves
in moving picture imitations of religion, they are grossly
underestimating the intelligence of the red-blooded citizens of this
great republic. We shall be much mistaken if the order-loving and
patriotic people of our Christian community do not find a way to
stamp their heel upon this vile viper before its venom shall have
poisoned the air we breathe.”
XXXVII
Then I picked up the “Examiner.” Our “Examiner” does not go in so
much for moral causes; it is more interested in getting circulation,
for which it relies upon sensation, and especially what it calls
“heart interest,” meaning sex. It had found what it wanted in this
story, as you may judge by the headlines:
MOVIE QUEEN PAWNS JEWELS FOR PROPHET OF GOD
Then followed a story of which Mary Magna was the centre, with T-S
and myself for background. The reporter had hunted out the Mexican
family with which Carpenter had spent the night, and he drew a
touching picture of Carpenter praying over Mary in this humble home,
and converting her to a better life. Would the “million dollar
vamp,” as the “Examiner” called her, now take to playing only
religious parts? Mary was noncommittal on the point; and pending her
decision, the “Examiner” published her portraits in half a dozen of
her most luxurious roles--for example, as Salome after taking off
the seventh veil. Side by side with Carpenter, that had a real
“punch,” you may believe!
The telephone rang, and there was the voice of T-S, fairly raving.
He didn’t mind the “Examiner” stuff; that was good business, but
that in the “Times”--he was going to sue the “Times” for a million
dollars, by God, and would I back him in his claim that he had not
put Carpenter up to the healing business?
After a bit, the magnate began apologizing for his repudiation of
the prophet. He was in a position, just now with these hard times,
where the Wall Street crowd could ruin him if he got in bad with
them. And then he told me a curious story. Last night, after the
meeting, young Everett, his secretary, had come to him and asked if
he could have a couple of months’ leave of absence without pay. He
was so much interested in Carpenter that he wanted to follow him and
help him!
“Y’ know, Billy,” said the voice over the phone, “y’ could a’
knocked me over vit a fedder! Dat young feller, he vas alvays so
quiet, and such a fine business feller, I put him in charge of all
my collections. I said to him, ‘Vot you gonna do?’ And he said, ‘I
gonna learn from Mr. Carpenter.’ Says I, ‘Vot you gonna learn?’ and
he says, ‘I gonna learn to be a better man.’ Den he vaits a minute,
and he says, ‘Mr. T-S, he told me to foller him!’ J’ ever hear de
like o’ dat?”
“What did you say?”
“Vot could I say? I vanted to say, ‘Who’s givin’ you de orders?’ But
I couldn’t, somehow! I hadda tell him to go ahead, and come back
before he forgot all my business.”
I dressed, and had my breakfast, and drove to St. Bartholomew’s. It
was a November morning, bright and sunny, as warm as summer; and it
is always such a pleasure to see that goodly company of ladies and
gentlemen, so perfectly groomed, so perfectly mannered, breathing a
sense of peace and well being. Ah, that wonderful sense of well
being! “God’s in His Heaven, all’s right with the world!” And what a
curious contrast with the Labor Temple! For a moment I doubted
Carpenter; surely these ladies with their decorative bonnets, their
sweet perfumes, their gowns of rose and lilac and other pastel
shades--surely they were more important life-products than women in
frowsy and dowdy imitation clothes! Surely it was better to be
serene and clean and pleasant, than to be terrible and bewildered,
sick and quarrelsome! I was seized by a frenzy, a sort of
instinctive animal lust for this life of ease and prettiness. No
matter if those dirty, raucous-voiced hordes of strikers, and others
of their “ilk”--as the “Times” phrased it--did have to wash my
clothes and scrub my floors, just so that I stayed clean and
decent!
I bowed to a score or two of the elegant ladies, and to their
escorts in shiny top hats and uncreased kid gloves, and went into
the exquisite church with its glowing stained glass window, and
looked up over the altar--and there stood Carpenter! I tell you, it
gave me a queer shock. There he was, up in the window, exactly where
he had always been; I thought I had suddenly wakened from a dream.
There had been no “prophet fresh from God,” no mass-meeting at Grant
Hall, no editorial in the “Times”! But suddenly I heard a voice at
my elbow: “Billy, what is this awful thing you’ve been doing?” It
was my Aunt Caroline, and I asked what she meant, and she answered,
“That terrible prophet creature, and getting your name into the
papers!”
So I knew it was true, and I walked with my dear, sweet old auntie
down the aisle, and there sat Aunt Jennie, with her two lanky girls
who have grown inches every time I run into them; and also Uncle
Timothy. Uncle Timothy was my guardian until I came of age, so I am
a little in awe of him, and now I had to listen to his whispered
reproaches--it being the first principle of our family never to “get
into the papers.” I told him that it wasn’t my fault I had been
knocked down by a mob, and surely I couldn’t help it if this man
Carpenter found me while I was unconscious, and made me well. Nor
could I fail to be polite to my benefactor, and try to help him
about. My Uncle Timothy was amazed, because he had accepted the
“Times” story that it was all a “movie” hoax. Everybody will tell
you in Western City that they “never believe a word they read in the
‘Times’”; but of course they do--they have to believe something, and
what else have they?
I was trying to think about that picture over the altar. Of course,
they would naturally have replaced it! I wondered who had found old
de Wiggs up there; I wondered if he knew about it, and if he had any
idea who had played that prank. I looked to his pew; yes, there he
sat, rosy and beaming, bland as ever! I looked for old Peter Dexter,
president of the Dexter Trust company--yes, he was in his pew,
wizened and hunched up, prematurely bald. And Stuyvesant Gunning, of
the Fidelity National--they were all here, the masters of the city’s
finance and the pillars of “law and order.” Some wag had remarked if
you wanted to call directors’ meeting after the service, you could
settle all the business of Western City in St. Bartholomew’s!
The organ pealed and the white-robed choir marched in, bearing the
golden crosses, and followed by the Reverend Dr. Lettuce-Spray,
smooth-shaven, plump and beautiful, his eyes bent reverently on the
floor. They were singing with fervor that most orthodox of hymns:
The church’s one foundation Is Jesus Christ, her Lord.
It is a beautiful old service, as you may know, and I had been
taught to love it and thrill to it as a little child, and we never
forget those things. Peace and propriety are its keynotes; order and
dignity, combined with sensuous charm. Everyone knows his part, and
it moves along like a beautiful machine. I knelt and prayed, and
then sat and listened, and then stood and sang--over and over for
perhaps three-quarters of an hour. We came to the hymn which
precedes the sermon, and turning to the number, we obediently
proclaimed:
The Son of God goes forth to war A kingly crown to gain: His
blood-red banner streams afar: Who follows in His train?
During the singing of the last verse, the Reverend Lettuce-Spray had
moved silently into the pulpit. After the choir had sung “Amen,” he
raised his hands in invocation--and at that awesome moment I saw
Carpenter come striding up the aisle!
XXXVIII
He knew just where he was going, and walked so fast that before
anyone had time to realize what was happening, he was on the altar
steps, and facing the congregation. You could hear the gasp of
amazement; he was so absolutely identical with the painted figure
over his head, that if he had remained still, you could not have
told which was painting and which was flesh and blood. The rector in
the pulpit stood with his mouth open, staring as if seeing a ghost.
The prophet stretched out both his hands, and pointed two accusing
fingers at the congregation. His voice rang out, stern and
commanding: “Let this mockery cease!” Again he cried: “What do ye
with my Name?” And pointing over his head: “Ye crucify me in stained
glass!”
There came murmurs from the congregation, the first mutterings of a
storm. “Oh! Outrageous! Blasphemy!”
“Blasphemy?” cried Carpenter. “Is it not written that God dwelleth
not in temples made with hands? Ye have built a temple to Mammon,
and defile the name of my Father therein!”
The storm grew louder. “This is preposterous!” exclaimed my uncle
Timothy at my side. And the Reverend Lettuce-Spray managed to find
his voice. “Sir, whoever you are, leave this church!”
Carpenter turned upon him. “You give orders to me--you who have
brought back the moneychangers into my Father’s temple?” And
suddenly he faced the congregation, crying in a voice of wrath:
“Algernon de Wiggs! Stand up!”
Strange as it may seem, the banker rose in his pew; whether under
the spell of Carpenter’s majestic presence, or preparing to rush at
him and throw him out, I could not be sure. The great banker’s face
was vivid scarlet.
And Carpenter pointed to another part of the congregation. “Peter
Dexter! Stand up!” The president of the Dexter Trust Company also
arose, trembling as if with palsy, mumbling something, one could not
tell whether protest or apology.
“Stuyvesant Gunning! Stand up!” And the president of the Fidelity
National obeyed. Apparently Carpenter proposed to call the whole
roll of financial directors; but the procedure was halted suddenly,
as a tall, white-robed figure strode from its seat near the choir.
Young Sidney Simpkinson, assistant to the rector, went up to
Carpenter and took him by the arm.
“Leave this house of God,” he commanded.
The other faced him. “It is written, Thou shalt not take the name of
the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless
that taketh His name in vain.”
Young Simpkinson wasted no further words in parley. He was an
advocate of what is known as “muscular Christianity,” and kept
himself in trim playing on the parish basket-ball team. He flung his
strong arms about Carpenter, and half carrying him, half walking
him, took him down the steps and down the aisle. As he went,
Carpenter was proclaiming: “It is written, My house shall be called
a house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves. He that
steals little is called a pickpocket, but he that steals much is
called a pillar of the church. Verily, he that deprives the laborer
of the fruit of his toil is more dangerous than he that robs upon
the highway; and he that steals the state and the powers of
government is the father of all thieves.”
By that time, the prophet had been hustled two-thirds down the
aisle; and then came a new development. Unobserved by anyone, a
number of Carpenter’s followers had come with him into the church;
and these, seeing the way he was being handled, set up a cry: “For
shame! For shame!” I saw Everett, secretary to T-S, and Korwsky,
secretary of the tailor’s union; I saw some one leap at Everett and
strike him a ferocious blow in the teeth, and two other men leap
upon the little Russian and hurl him to the ground.
I started up, involuntarily. “Oh, shame! Shame!” I cried, and would
have rushed out into the aisle. But I had to pass my uncle, and he
had no intention of letting me make myself a spectacle. He threw his
arms about me, and pinned me against the pew in front; and as he is
one of the ten ranking golfers at the Western City Country Club, his
embrace carried authority. I struggled, but there I stayed,
shouting, “For shame! For shame!” and my uncle exclaiming, in a
stern whisper, “Shut up! Sit down, you fool!” and my Aunt Caroline
holding onto my coat-tails, crying, and my aunt Jennie threatening
to faint.
The melee came quickly to an end, for the men of the congregation
seized the half dozen disturbers and flung them outside, and mounted
guard to make sure they did not return. I sank back into my seat, my
worthy uncle holding my arm tightly with both hands, lest I should
try to make my escape over the laps of Aunt Caroline and Aunt
Jennie.
All this time the Reverend Lettuce-Spray had been standing in the
pulpit, making no sound. Now, as the congregation settled back into
order, he said, with the splendid, conscious self-possession of one
who can remain “equal to the occasion”: “We will resume the
service.” And he opened his portfolio, and spread out his manuscript
before him, and announced:
“Our text for the morning is the fifth chapter of the gospel
according to St. Matthew, the thirty-ninth and fortieth verses: ‘But
I say unto you, that ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite
thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if any man
shall sue thee at law, and take away thy coat, let him have thy
cloak also.”
XXXIX
I sat through the sermon, and the offertory, and the recessional.
After that my uncle tried to detain me, to warn and scold me; but he
no longer used physical force, and nothing but that would have held
me. At the door I asked one of the ushers what had become of the
prophet, thinking he might be in jail. But the answer was that the
gang had gone off, carrying their wounded; so I ran round the corner
to where my car was parked, and within ten minutes I was on Western
City Street, where Carpenter had announced that he would speak.
There had been nothing said about the proposed meeting in the
papers, and no one knew about it save those who had been present at
Grant Hall. But it looked as if they had told everyone they knew,
and everyone they had told had come. The wide street was packed
solid for a block, and in the midst of this throng stood Carpenter,
upon a wagon, making a speech.
There was no chance to get near, so I bethought me of an alley which
ran parallel to the street. There was an obscure hotel on the
street, and I entered it through the rear entrance, and had no
trouble in persuading the clerk to let me join some of the guests of
the hotel who were watching the scene from the second story windows.
The first thing which caught my attention was the figure of Everett,
seated on the floor of the wagon from which the speech was being
made. I saw that his face was covered with blood; I learned later
that he had three teeth knocked out, and his nose broken.
Nevertheless, there he was with his stenographer’s notebook, taking
down the prophet’s words. He told me afterwards that he had taken
even what Carpenter said in the church. “I’ve an idea he won’t last
very long,” was the way he put it; “and if they should get rid of
him, every word he’s said will be precious. Anyhow, I’m going to get
what I can.”
Also I saw Korwsky, lying on the floor of the wagon, evidently
knocked out; and two other men whom I did not know, nursing battered
and bloody faces. Having taken all that in at a glance, I gave my
attention to what Carpenter was saying.
He was discussing churches and those who attend them. Later on, my
attention was called to the curious fact that his discourse was
merely a translation into modern American of portions of the
twenty-third chapter of St. Matthew; a free adaptation of those
ancient words to present day practices and conditions. But I had no
idea of this while I listened; I was shocked by what seemed to me a
furious tirade, and the guests of the hotel were even more
shocked--I think they would have taken to throwing things out of the
windows at the orator, had it not been for their fear of the crowd.
Said Carpenter:
“The theologians and scholars and the pious laymen fill the leisure
class churches, and it would be all right if you were to listen to
what they preach, and do that; but don’t follow their actions, for
they never practice what they preach. They load the backs of the
working-classes with crushing burdens, but they themselves never
move a finger to carry a burden, and everything they do is for show.
They wear frock-coats and silk hats on Sundays, and they sit at the
speakers’ tables at the banquets of the Civic Federation, and they
occupy the best pews in the churches, and their doings are reported
in all the papers; they are called leading citizens and pillars of
the church. But don’t you be called leading citizens, for the only
useful man is the man who produces. (Applause.) And whoever exalts
himself shall be abased, and whoever humbles himself shall be
exalted.
“Woe unto you, doctors of divinity and Catholics, hypocrites! for
you shut up the kingdom of heaven against men; you don’t go in
yourself and you don’t let others go in. Woe unto you, doctors of
divinity and Presbyterians, hypocrites! for you foreclose mortgages
on widows’ houses, and for a pretense you make long prayers. For
this you will receive the greater damnation! Woe unto you, doctors
of divinity and Methodists, hypocrites! for you send missionaries to
Africa to make one convert, and when you have made him, is twice as
much a child of hell as yourselves. (Applause.) Woe unto you, blind
guides, with your subtleties of doctrine, your transubstantiation
and consubstantiation and all the rest of it; you fools and blind!
Woe unto you, doctors of divity and Episcopalians, hypocrites! for
you drop your checks into the collection-plate and you pay no heed
to the really important things in the Bible, which are justice and
mercy and faith in goodness. You blind guides, who choke over a fly
and swallow a flivver! (Laughter.) Woe unto you, doctors of divinity
and Anglicans, hypocrites! for you dress in immaculate clothing kept
clean by the toil of frail women, but within you are full of
extortion and excess. You blind high churchmen, clean first your
hearts, so that the clothes you wear may represent you. Woe unto
you, doctors of divinity and Baptists, hypocrites! for you are like
marble tombs which appear beautiful on the outside, but inside are
full of dead men’s bones and all uncleanness. Even so you appear
righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.
(Applause.) Woe unto you doctors of divinity and Unitarians,
hypocrites! because you erect statues to dead reformers, and put
wreaths upon the tombs of old-time martyrs. You say, if we had been
alive in those days, we would not have helped to kill those good
men. That ought to show you how to treat us at present. (Laughter.)
But you are the children of those who killed the good men; so go
ahead and kill us too! You serpents, you generation of vipers, how
can you escape the damnation of hell?”
XL
When Carpenter stopped speaking, his face was dripping with sweat,
and he was pale. But the eager crowd would not let him go. They
began to ask him questions. There were some who wanted to know what
he meant by saying that he came from God, and some who wanted to
know whether he believed in the Christian religion. There were
others who wanted to know what he thought about political action,
and if he really believed that the capitalists would give up without
using force. There was a man who had been at the relief kitchen, and
noted that he ate soup with meat in it, and asked if this was not
using force against one’s fellow creatures. The old gentleman who
represented spiritualism was on hand, asking if the dead are still
alive, and if so, where are they?
Then, before the meeting was over, there came a sick man to be
healed; and others, pushing their way through the crowd, clamoring
about the wagon, seeking even to touch the hem of Carpenter’s
garments. After a couple of hours of this he announced that he was
worn out. But it was a problem to get the wagon started; they could
only move slowly, the driver calling to the people in front to make
room. So they went down the street, and I got into my car and
followed at a distance. I did not know where they were going, and
there was nothing I could do but creep along--a poor little rich boy
with a big automobile and nobody to ride in it, or to pay any
attention to him.
The wagon drove to the city jail; which rather gave me a start,
because I had been thinking that the party might be arrested at any
minute, on complaint to the police from the church. But apparently
this did not trouble Carpenter. He wished to visit the strikers who
had been arrested in front of Prince’s restaurant. He and several
others stood before the heavy barred doors asking for admission,
while a big crowd gathered and stared. I sat watching the scene,
with phrases learned in earliest childhood floating through my mind:
“I was sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came unto
me.”
But it appeared that Sunday was not visitors’ day at the jail, and
the little company was turned away. As they climbed back into the
wagon, I saw two husky fellows come from the jail, a type one learns
to know as plain clothes men. “Why won’t they let him in?” cried
some one in the crowd; and one of the detectives looked over his
shoulder, with a sneering laugh: “We’ll let him in before long,
don’t you worry!”
The wagon took up its slow march again. It was a one-horse
express-cart, belonging, as I afterwards learned, to a compatriot of
Korwsky the tailor. This man, Simon Karlin, earned a meager living
for himself and his family by miscellaneous delivery in his
neighborhood; but now he was so fascinated with Carpenter that he
had dropped everything in order to carry the prophet about. I
mention it, because next day in the newspapers there was much fun
made of this imitation man of God riding about town in a half
broken-down express-wagon, hauled by a rickety and spavined old nag.
The company drove to one of the poorer quarters of the city, and
stopped before a workingman’s cottage on a street whose name I had
never heard before. I learned that it was the home of James, the
striking carpenter, and on the steps were his wife and a brood of
half a dozen children, and his old father and mother, and several
other people unidentified. There were many who had walked all the
way following the wagon, and others gathered quickly, and besought
the prophet to speak to them, and to heal their sick. Apparently his
whole life was to consist of that kind of thing, for he found it
hard to refuse any request. But finally he told them he must be
quiet, and went inside, and James mounted guard at the door, and I
sat in my car and waited until the crowd had filtered away. There
was no good reason why I should have been admitted, but James
apparently was glad to see me, and let me join the little company
that was gathered in his home.
There was Everett, who had now washed the blood off his face, but
had not been able to put back his lost teeth, nor to heal the
swollen mass that had once been his upper lip and nose. And there
was Korwsky, who was now able to sit up and smile feebly, and two
other men, whose names I did not learn, nursing battered faces.
Carpenter prayed over them all, and they became more cheerful, and
eager to talk about the adventure, each telling over what had
happened to him. I noted that Everett, in spite of what must have
been intense pain, was still faithfully taking down every word the
prophet uttered.
It had been known that Carpenter was to honor this house with his
presence, and the family were all dressed in their best, and had got
together a supper, in spite of hard times and strikes. We had
sandwiches and iced tea and a slice of pie for each of us, and I was
interested to observe that the prophet, tired as he was, liked to
laugh and chat over his food, exactly like any uninspired human
being. He never failed to get the children around him and tell them
stories, and hear their bright laughter.
XLI
But, of course, serious things kept intruding. Karlin the express
driver, had a sick wife, and Carpenter heard about her and insisted
upon going to see her. Apparently there was no end to this business
of the poor being sick. It was a new thing to me--this world
swarming with dirty and miserable and distracted people. Of course,
I had known about “the poor,” but always either in the abstract, or
else as an individual, or a family, that one could help. But here
was a new world, thickly peopled, swarming; that was the terrible
part of it--the vastness of it, the thickness of the population in
these regions of “the poor.” It was like some sort of delirium; like
being lost in a wilderness, of which the trees were miseries, and
deformities, and pains! I could understand to the full Carpenter’s
feeling when he put his hands to his forehead, exclaiming: “There is
so much to do and so few to do it! Pray to God, that he will send
some to help us!”
When he returned from Simon Karlin’s, he brought with him the
latter’s wife, whom he had healed of a fever; and here was another
of the company whom he insisted upon helping--“Comrade” Abell, one
of the men I had noticed at the meeting last night, and who appeared
to be done up. This man, I learned, was secretary of the Socialist
local of Western City. I had known there were Socialists in the
city, just as I knew there were poor, but I had never seen one, and
was curious about Abell. He was a lawyer; and that might suggest to
you a certain type of person, brisk and well dressed--but
apparently Socialist lawyers are not true to type. Comrade Abell was
a shy, timid little man, with black hair straggling about his ears,
and sometimes into his eyes. He had a gentle, pathetic face, and his
voice was melancholy and caressing. He was clad in a frock coat of
black broadcloth, which had once been appropriate for Sunday; but I
should judge it had been worn for twenty years, for it was green
about the collar and the cuffs and button-holes.
Comrade Abell’s office and also his home were in a second story,
over a grocery-store in this neighborhood, and here also was a
little hall used as a meeting-place by the Socialists. Every
Saturday night Abell and two or three of his friends conducted a
soap-box meeting on Western City Street, and gave away propaganda
leaflets and sold a few pamphlets and books. He had had quite a
supply of literature of all kinds at his office, nearly two thousand
dollars worth, he told Carpenter, but a few months previously the
place had been mobbed. A band of ex-service men, accompanied by a
few police and detectives, had raided it and terrified the wife and
children by breaking down the doors and throwing the contents of
desks and bureaus out on the floor. They had dumped the literature
into a truck and carted it away, and after two or three weeks they
had dumped it back again, having found nothing criminal in it. “But
they ruined it so that it can’t be sold!” broke in James,
indignantly. “Most of it was bought on credit, and how can we pay
for it.”
James was also a Socialist, it appeared, while Korwsky and his
friend Karlin advocated “industrial action,” and these fell to
arguing over “tactics,” while Carpenter asked questions, so as to
understand their different points of view. Presently Korwsky was
called out of the room, and came back with an announcement which he
evidently considered grave. John Colver was in the neighborhood, and
wanted to know if Carpenter would meet him.
“Who is John Colver?” asked the prophet. And it was explained that
this was a dangerous agitator, now under sentence of twenty years in
jail, but out on bail pending the appeal of his case to the supreme
court. Colver was a “wobbly,” well known as one of their poets. Said
Korwsky, “He tinks you vouldn’t like to know him, because if de
spies find it out, dey vould git after you.”
“I will meet any man,” said Carpenter. “My business is to meet men.”
 And so in a few minutes the terrible John Colver was escorted into
the room.
Now, every once in a while I had read in the “Times” how another
bunch of these I.W.W’s. were put on trial, and how they were
insolent to the judge, and how it was proved they had committed many
crimes, and how they were sentenced to fourteen years in State’s
prison under our criminal syndicalism act. Needless to say, I had
never seen one of these desperate men; but I had a quite definite
idea what they looked like--dark and sinister creatures, with
twisted mouths and furtive eyes. I knew that, because I had seen a
couple of moving picture shows in which they figured. But now for
the first time I met one, and behold, he was an open-faced, laughing
lad, with apple cheeks and two most beautiful rows of even white
teeth that gleamed at you!
“Fellow-worker Carpenter!” he cried; and caught the prophet by his
two hands. “You are an old friend of ours, though you may not know
it! We drink a toast to you in our jungles.”
“Is that so?” said Carpenter.
“I suppose I really have no right to see you,” continued the other,
“because I’m shadowed all the time, and you know my organization is
outlawed.”
“Why is it outlawed?”
“Well,” said Colver, “they say we burn crops and barns, and drive
copper-nails into fruit-trees, and spikes into sawmill lumber.”
“And do you do that?”
Colver laughed his merry laugh. “We do it just as often as you act
for the movies, Fellow-worker Carpenter!”
“I see,” said Carpenter. “What do you really do?”
“What we really do is to organize the unskilled workers.”
“For what do you organize them?”
“So that they will be able to run the industries when the system of
greed breaks down of its own rottenness.”
“I see,” said the prophet, and he thought for a moment. “It is a
slave revolt!”
“Exactly,” said the other.
“I know what they do to slave revolts, my brother. You are fortunate
if they only send you to prison.”
“They do plenty more than that,” said Colver. “I will give you our
pamphlet, ‘Drops of Blood,’ and you may read about some of the
lynching and tarring and feathering and shooting of Mobland.” His
eyes twinkled. “That’s a dandy name you’ve hit on! I shall be
surprised if it doesn’t stick.”
Carpenter went on questioning, bent upon knowing about this outlaw
organization and its members. It was clear before long that he had
taken a fancy to young John Colver. He made him sit beside him, and
asked to hear some of his poetry, and when he found it really vivid
and beautiful, he put his arm about the young poet’s shoulders.
Again I found memories of old childhood phrases stirring in my mind.
Had there not once been a disciple named John, who was especially
beloved?
XLII
Presently the young agitator began telling about an investigation he
had been making in the lumber country of the Northwest. He was
writing a pamphlet on the subject of a massacre which had occurred
there. A mob of ex-soldiers had stormed the headquarters of the
“wobblies,” and the latter had defended themselves, and killed two
or three of their assailants. A news agency had sent out over the
country a story to the effect that the “wobblies” had made an
unprovoked assault upon the ex-soldiers. “That’s what the papers do
to us!” said John Colver. “There have been scores of mobbings as a
result, and just now it may be worth a man’s life to be caught
carrying a red card in any of these Western states.”
So there was the subject of non-resistance, and I sat and listened
with strangely mingled feelings of sympathy and repulsion, while
this group of rebels of all shades and varieties argued whether it
was really possible for the workers to get free without some kind of
force. Carpenter, it appeared, was the only one in the company who
believed it possible. The gentle Comrade Abell was obliged to admit
that the Socialists, in using political action, were really
resorting to force in a veiled form. They sought to take possession
of the state by voting; but the state was an instrument of force,
and would use force to carry out its will. “You are an anarchist!”
 said the Socialist lawyer, addressing Carpenter.
To my surprise Carpenter was not shocked by this.
“If I admit no power but love,” said he, “how can I have anything to
do with government?”
More visitors called, and were admitted, and presently the little
room was packed with people, and a regular meeting was in progress.
I heard more strange ideas than I had ever known existed in the
world. I tried not to be offended; but I thought there ought to be
at least a few words said for plain ordinary human beings who carry
no labels, so I ventured now and then to put in a mild
suggestion--for example, that there were quite a few people in the
world who did not love all their neighbors, and could not be
persuaded to love them all at once, and it might be necessary to put
just a little restraint upon them for a time. Again I suggested,
maybe the workers were not yet sufficiently educated to run the
industries, they might need some help from the present masters.
“Just a little more education,” I ventured--
And John Colver laughed, the first ugly laugh I had heard from him.
“Education by the masters? Education at the end of a club!”
“My boy,” I argued, “I know there are plenty of employers who are
rough, but there are others who are good men, who would like to
change the system, would like to do something, if they knew what it
was. But who will tell them what to do? Take me, for example. I have
a great deal of wealth which I have not earned; but what can I do
about it? What do you say, Mr. Carpenter?”
I turned to him, as the true authority; and the others also turned
to him. He answered, without hesitation: “Sell everything that you
have and give it to the unemployed.”
“But,” said I, “would that really solve the problem. They would
spend it, and we should be right where we were before.”
Said Carpenter: “They are unemployed because you have taken from
them wealth which you have not earned. Give it back to them.”
And then, seeing that I was not satisfied, he added: “How hard it is
for a rich man to understand the meaning of social justice! Indeed,
it would be easier for a strike leader to get the truth published in
your ‘Times’, than for a rich man to understand what the word social
justice means.”
The company laughed, and I subsided, and let the wave of
conversation roll by. It was only later that I realized the part I
had just been playing. It had been easy for me to recognize T-S as
St. Peter, but I had not known myself as that rich young man who had
asked for advice, and then rejected it. “When he heard this, he was
very sorrowful; for he was very rich.” Yes, I had found my place in
the story!
XLIII
You may believe that next morning my first thought was to get hold
of the “Times” and see what they had done to my prophet. Sure
enough, there he was on the front page, three columns wide, with the
customary streamer head:
MOB OF ANARCHISTS RAID ST. BARTHOLMEW’S
PROPHET AND RAGGED HORDE BREAK UP CHURCH SERVICES
I skimmed over the story quickly; I noted that Carpenter was
represented as having tried to knock down the Reverend Mr.
Simpkinson, and that the prophet’s followers had assaulted members
of the congregation. I confess to some relief upon discovering that
my own humble part in the adventure had not been mentioned. I
suspected that my Uncle Timothy must have been busy at the telephone
on Sunday evening! But then I turned to the “Examiner,” and alas,
there I was! “A certain rich young man,” rising up to protect an
incendiary prophet! I remembered that my Uncle Timothy had had a
violent row with the publisher of the “Examiner” a year or two ago,
over some political appointment!
The “Times” had another editorial, two columns, double leaded.
Yesterday the paper had warned the public what to expect; today it
saw the prophecies justified, and what it now wished to know was,
had Western City a police department, or had it not? “How much
longer do our authorities propose to give rein to this fire-brand
imposter? This prophet of God who rides about town in a broken-down
express-wagon, and consorts with movie actresses and red agitators!
Must the police wait until his seditious doctrines have fanned the
flames of mob violence beyond control? Must they wait until he has
gathered all the others of his ilk, the advocates of lunacy and
assassination about him, and caused an insurrection of class envy
and hate? We call upon the authorities of our city to act and act at
once; to put this wretched mountebank behind bars where he belongs,
and keep him there.”
There was another aspect of this matter upon which the “Times” laid
emphasis. After long efforts on the part of the Chamber of Commerce
and other civic organizations, Western City had been selected as the
place for the annual convention of the Mobland Brigade. In three
days this convention would be called to order, and already the
delegates were pouring in by every train. What impression would they
get of law and order in this community? Was this the purpose for
which they had shed their blood in a dreadful war--that their
country might be affronted by the ravings of an impious charlatan?
What had the gold-star mothers of Western City to say to this? What
did the local post of the Mobland Brigade propose to do to save the
fair name of their city? Said the “Times”: “If our supine
authorities refuse to meet this emergency, we believe there are
enough 100% Americans still among us to protect the cause of public
decency, and to assert the right of Christian people to worship
their God without interference from the Dictatorship of the Lunatic
Asylum.”
Now, I had been so much interested in Carpenter and his adventures
that I had pretty well overlooked this matter of the Mobland Brigade
and its convention. I belong to the Brigade myself, and ought to
have been serving on the committee of arrangements; instead of
which, here I was chasing around trying to save a prophet, who, it
appeared, really wanted to get into trouble! Yes, the Brigade was
coming; and I could foresee what would happen when a bunch of these
wild men encountered Carpenter’s express wagon on the street!
XLIV
I swallowed a hasty cup of coffee, and drove in a taxi to the Labor
Temple. Carpenter had said he would be there early in the morning,
to help with the relief work again. I went to the rooms of the
Restaurant Workers, and found that he had not yet arrived. I noticed
a group of half a dozen men standing near the door, and there seemed
something uncordial in the look they gave me. One of them came
toward me, the same who had sought my advice about permitting
Carpenter to speak at the mass meeting. “Good morning,” he said; and
then: “I thought you told me this fellow Carpenter was not a red?”
“Well,” said I, taken by surprise, “is he?”
“God Almighty!” said the other. “What do you call this?” And he held
up a copy of the “Times.” “Going in and shouting in the middle of a
church service, and trying to knock down a clergyman!”
I could not help laughing in the man’s face. “So even you labor men
believe what you read in the ‘Times’! It happens I was present in
the church myself, and I assure you that Carpenter offered no
resistance, and neither did anyone else in his group. You remember,
I told you he was a man of peace, and that was all I told you.”
“Well,” said the other, somewhat more mildly, “even so, we can’t
stand for this kind of thing. That’s no way to accomplish anything.
A whole lot of our members are Catholics, and what will they make of
carryings-on like this? We’re trying to persuade people that we’re a
law-abiding organization, and that our officials are men of sense.”
“I see,” said I. “And what do you mean to do about it?”
“We have called a meeting of our executive committee this morning,
and are going to adopt a resolution, making clear to the public that
we knew nothing about this church raid, and that we don’t stand for
such things. We would never have permitted this man Carpenter to
speak on our platform, if we had known about his ideas.”
I had nothing to say, and I said it. The other was watching me
uneasily. “We hear the man proposes to come back to our relief
kitchen. Is that so?”
“I believe he does; and I suppose you would rather he didn’t. Is
that it?” The other admitted that was it, and I laughed. “He has had
his thousand dollars worth of hospitality, I suppose.”
“Well, we don’t want to hurt his feelings,” said the other. “Of
gourse our members are having a hard time, and we were glad to get
the money, but it would be better if our central organization were
to contribute the funds, rather than to have us pay such a price as
this newspaper publicity.”
“Then let your committee vote the money, and return it to Mr. T-S,
and also to Mary Magna.”
It took the man sometime to figure out a reply to this proposition.
“We have no objection to Mr. T-S coming here,” he said, “or Miss
Magna either.”
“That is,” said I, “so long as they obey the law, and don’t get in
bad with the Western City ‘Times’!” After a moment I added, “You may
make your mind easy. I will go downstairs and wait for Mr.
Carpenter, and tell him he is not wanted.”
And so I left the Labor Temple and walked up and down on the
sidewalk in front. It was really rather unreasonable of me to be
annoyed with this labor man for having voiced the same point of view
of “common sense” which I had been defending to Carpenter’s group on
the previous evening. Also, I was obliged to admit to myself that if
I were a labor leader, trying to hold together a group of
half-educated men in the face of public sentiment such as existed in
this city, I might not have the same carefree, laughing attitude
towards life as a certain rich young man whose pockets were stuffed
with unearned increments.
To this mood of tolerance I had brought myself, when I saw a white
robe come round the corner, arm in arm with a frock coat of black
broadcloth. Also there came Everett, looking still more ghastly, his
nose and lip having become purple, and in places green. Also there
was Korwsky, and two other men; Moneta, a young Mexican cigarmaker
out of work, and a man named Hamby, who had turned up on the
previous evening, introducing himself as a pacifist who had been
arrested and beaten up during the war. Somehow he did not conform to
my idea of a pacifist, being a solid and rather stoutish fellow,
with nothing of the idealist about him. But Carpenter took him, as
he took everybody, without question or suspicion.
XLV
I joined the group, and made clear to them, as tactfully as I could,
that they were not wanted inside. Comrade Abell threw up his hands.
“Oh, those labor skates!” he cried. “Those miserable, cowardly,
grafting politicians! Thinking about nothing but keeping themselves
respectable, and holding on to their fat, comfortable salaries!”
“Vell, vat you expect?” cried Korwsky. “You git de verkin’ men into
politics, and den you blame dem fer bein’ politicians!”
“Nothing was said about returning the money, I suppose?” remarked
Everett, in a bitter tone.
“Something was said,” I replied. “I said it. I don’t think the money
will be returned.”
Then Carpenter spoke. “The money was given to feed the hungry,” said
he. “If it is used for that purpose, we can ask no more. And if men
set out to preach a new doctrine, how can they expect to be welcomed
at once? We have chosen to be outcasts, and must not complain. Let
us go to the jail. Perhaps that is the place for us.” So the little
group set out in a new direction.
On the way we talked about the labor movement, and what was the
matter with it. Comrade Abell said that Carpenter was right, the
fundamental trouble was that the workers were imbued with the
psychology of their masters. They would strike for this or that
improvement in their condition, and then go to the polls and vote
for the candidates of their masters. But Korwsky was more vehement;
he was an industrial unionist, and thought the present craft unions
worse than nothing.
Little groups of labor aristocrats, seking to benefit themselves at
the expense of the masses, the unorganized, unskilled workers and
the floating population of casual labor! That was why those “skates”
 at the Labor Temple has so little enthusiasm for Carpenter and his
doctrine of brotherhood! In this country where every man was trying
to climb up on the face of some other man!
Our little group had come out on Broadway. It attracted a good deal
of attention, and a number of curiosity seekers were beginning to
trail behind us. “We’ll get a crowd again, and Carpenter ‘ll be
making a speech,” I thought; and as usual I faced a moral conflict.
Should I stand by, or should I sneak away, and preserve the dignity
of my family?
Suddenly came a sound of music, fifes and drums. It burst on our
ears from round the corner, shrill and lively--“The Girl I Left
Behind Me.” Carpenter, who was directly in front of me, stopped
short, and seemed to shrink away from what was coming, until his
back was against the show-window of a department-store, and he could
shrink no further.
It was a company of ex-service men in uniform; one or two hundred,
carrying rifles with fixed bayonets which gleamed in the sunshine.
There were two fifers and two drummers at their head, and also two
flags, one the flag of the Brigade, and the other the flag of
Mobland. I remembered having noted in the morning papers that the
national commander of the brigade was to arrive in town this
morning, and no doubt this was a delegation to do him honor.
The marchers swept down on us, and past us, and I watched the
prophet. His eyes were wide, his whole face expressing anguish. “Oh
God, my Father!” he whispered, and seemed to quiver with each thud
of the tramping feet on the pavement. After the storm had passed, he
stood motionless, the pain still in his face “It is Rome! It is
Rome!” he murmured.
“No,” said I, “it is Mobland.”
He went on, as if he had not heard me. “Rome! Eternal Rome! Rome
that never dies!” And he turned upon me his startled eyes. “Even the
eagles!”
For a moment I was puzzled; but then I remembered the golden eagle
with wings outspread, that perches on top of our national banner.
“We only use one eagle,” I said, somewhat feebly.
To which he answered, “The soul of one eagle is the same as the soul
of two.”
Now, I had felt quite certain that Carpenter would not get along
very well with the Brigade, and I was more than ever decided that he
must be got out of the way somehow or other. But meantime, the first
task was to get him away from this crowd which was rapidly
collecting. Already he was in the full tide of a speech. “Those
sharp spears! Can you not see them thrust into the bowels of human
