it--or to keep themselves from admitting it."

"True enough.  But after all, they don't matter.  Life would be so much
simpler if we'd all make up our minds that what other people think
about us does not signify in the least.  It's only permitting it to
signify that permits it to exist."

"That's all very well for you, but it's really a question of
temperament.  Do you think I'd dare come back here looking like a girl
again--and I suppose I should.  I'm sixteen years younger than
you. . . .  You must know how many of the women hate you."

"That sort of hate may be very stimulating, my dear Agnes," said Madame
Zattiany drily.

"I can understand that.  But I should return to what it is hardly an
exaggeration to call a life of a thousand intimacies.  The ridicule!
The contempt!  The merciless criticism!  I don't want to live anywhere
else.  I can't face it!  But, oh, I do so want it!  I do so want it!"

"But just think of the compensations.  No doubt you would marry
immediately.  If you were happy, and with a man to protect you, how
much would you care?"

"Oh!"  Once more the thin ascetic face was dyed with an unbecoming
flush.  "Oh!"  And then the barriers fell with a crash and she hurried
on, the words tumbling over one another, as her memory, its inhibitions
shattered, swept back into the dark vortex of her secret past.  "Oh,
Mary!  You don't know!  You don't know!  You, who've had all the men
you ever wanted.  Who, they say, have a young man now.  The nights of
horror I've passed.  I've never slept a wink the nights our girls
married.  I could have killed them.  I could have killed every man I've
met for asking nothing of me.  It seems to me that I've thought of
nothing else for twenty years.  When I've been teaching, counselling
good thoughts, virtue, good conduct, to those girls down there, it's
been in the background of my mind every minute like a terrible
obsession.  I wonder I haven't gone mad.  Some of us old maids do go
mad.  And no one knew until they raved what was the matter with them.
When Hannah de Lacey lost her mind three years ago I heard one of the
doctors telling Peter Vane that her talk was the most libidinous he had
ever listened to.  And she was the most forbidding old maid in New
York.  I know if I lose my mind it will be the same, and that alone is
enough to drive any decent woman mad. . . .  I thought I'd get over it
in time--I used to pray--and fight with my will--but when the time came
when I should have been released I was afraid I would, and then I
deliberately did everything I could to keep it alive.  I couldn't lose
my right----  It was my right.  I couldn't tell you all the things
I've----  Oh, I tell you that unless I can be young again and have some
man--any man--I don't care whether he'll marry me or not--I'll go
mad--mad!"

Her voice had risen to a shriek.  She would be in hysterics in another
moment.  Mary, who was on the point of nausea, went hastily into her
dressing-room and poured out a dose of sal-volatile.  "Here!" she said
peremptorily.  "Drink this.  I'll not listen to another word.  And I
don't wish to be obliged to call an ambulance."

Miss Trevor gulped it down, and then permitted herself to be led to a
sofa, where she lay sprawled, her immaculate hat on one side, giving
her the look of a debauched gerontic virgin.  She lay panting for a few
moments, while Madame Zattiany paced up and down the room.

She turned as she heard a groan.  Miss Trevor was sitting up,
straightening her hat.  "Feel better?" she asked unsympathetically.

"Oh, yes--my nerves feel better!  But what have I said?  What must you
think of me?  I never expected to give way like that when I came.  I
thought I could put it all to you in a few delicate hints, knowing that
you would understand.  What have I said?  I can hardly remember."

"Better not try!  I'll promise to forget it myself."  She sat down
beside the sofa.  "Now, listen to me.  It would not be wise for you to
go to Vienna.  They would suspect, if not at once, then certainly when
you returned.  It can be done here.  The rejuvenescence is so gradual
that it would hardly be noticed.  Fully a year.  You do not have to go
into a hospital, nor even to bed.  You are not spied on, so no one
would suspect that you were taking the treatment.  At your age success
is practically assured.  Take it, and don't be a fool.  If you don't
it's only a question of time when that superb self-control you have
practised for so many years will go again.  And, too possibly, in the
wrong place. . . .  It is quite likely that you will never be
suspected, because women often bloom out in their forties, take on a
new lease of life.  Begin to put on a little make-up----"

Miss Trevor interrupted with a horrified exclamation.

"It would be judicious.  If they criticize you, remember that nothing
they can say will be as bad--from your point of view--as their finding
out the truth.  They will lay it to that, and to the fact that you have
grown a little stouter.  And let me tell you, you won't care in the
least, even if conservatism attacks you in solid battalions, for your
mental attitude to life will be entirely changed.  Remember that you
will be young again, and too gay and happy to mind what people think of
you.  Now, promise me that you will take my advice, and then go home
and to bed."

Miss Trevor got up and went to the mirror.  "Yes, I'll do it."  And
then she said, no doubt for the first time in her life: "And I'll not
give a damn, no matter what happens."

When she had left Mary Zattiany stood for a few moments striking her
hands together, her face distorted.  A wave of nausea overwhelmed her.
She felt as if there had been an earthquake in her own soul and its
muck were riding the surface.  She loathed herself and all women and
all men.  She knew that the violence of the revulsion must be
temporary, but for the moment it was beyond her control.  She went to
the telephone and called up Clavering and told him that she had a
severe headache and was going to bed.  And she cut short both his
protests and his expression of sympathy by hanging up the receiver.
And then she picked up a vase and hurled it to the floor and smashed it.




XLIII

Clavering stood on his high balcony and looked down upon Madison
Square.  Spring had come.  The Square looked like an oasis in a rocky
gorge.  The trees were covered with the tender greens of the new birth,
and even President Arthur and Roscoe Conkling, less green than in
winter, looked reconciled to their lot.  A few people were sunning
themselves on the benches, many more were on top of the busses over on
Fifth Avenue, and even the hurrying throngs, preoccupied with crass
business, seemed to walk with a lighter step, their heads up, instead
of sullenly defying winds and sleet.  The eight streets that surrounded
or debouched into the Square poured forth continuous streams of
figures, constantly augmented by throngs rising out of the earth
itself.  There was a vivid color running like ribbons through the
crowds, for it was nearly nine o'clock and the doors of offices and
shops and business houses were open to women as to men.  Overhead a
yellow sun shone in a pale filmy sky and the air was both warm and
sharp.  The doves were circling and settling.

The prize-fighters had taken their prowess elsewhere, and a circus had
come to Madison Square Garden.  Clavering had heard the roar of lions
in the night.  A far different crowd would stand under the arcade in a
few hours, but the peanut venders would ply their trade, and a little
booth for candies and innocuous juices had been erected in an alcove in
the front wall, presided over by a plump pretty blonde.  She alternated
"jollying" and selling with quiet intervals of beading a bag,
undisturbed either by ogling or the hideous noises of Twenty-sixth
Street.

In spite of his disappointment two nights before he found it impossible
to feel depressed in that gay spring sunshine.  He did not believe in
the headache, but she had written him a charming note and he supposed
that a man must get accustomed to the caprices of women if he intended
to live with one.  And a month from now they would be in the Dolomites,
and she would be his.  Let her have her caprices.  He had his own.
There were times when he didn't want to see her.

Moreover, he was still too jubilant over his play to feel depressed for
long over anything; the warm and constantly manifested enthusiasm of
his friends had kept his spirits from suffering any natural reaction.
Their demand for his companionship was almost peremptory, and his
thoughts turned to them as he stood on his balcony looking down on the
waning throngs: the great stone buildings were humming like hives, and
figures were passing busily to and fro behind the open windows.  It
astonished him a little.  True, it was his first play and he was very
popular.  But he had a vague uneasy idea they were overdoing it.  They
talked of nothing else: his play, his brilliant future, his sure place
in the crack regiment "if he hung on"; and they insisted that he must
also express himself at least once through the medium of the novel.
The great New York novel had yet to be written.  They fairly dinned his
gifts into his ears, until he was almost sick of them, and wondered if
Mary were not also.  She had seen a good deal of the Sophisticates
lately, and from what she had let drop he inferred that even when he
had not been present they had talked of little else.  They had by no
means waited for his play to be finished and read to a select few.
Hogarth and Scores had assured them long before it was finished that it
would be a great play.

Once or twice there was a rustling in the back of his mind.  They were
not given to wild enthusiasms of this sort.  They thought too highly of
themselves.  He realized how genuinely fond they were of him, but he
had not hoped for more than critical appreciation, from the men, at
least.  Could it be possible . . .

But he was still in the first flush of his triumph, his brain hummed
with pleasant memories of those hours at Gora Dwight's, three nights
ago.  He had cleared the base of the pedestal on whose narrow and
unaccommodating top he was soon to have his foothold, and it was not in
human nature, at this stage of his progress, to suspect the sincerity
of the adulation so generously poured at his feet.

And Mary, during this past fortnight (when he had been present, at
least) had seemed to bask contentedly in reflected glory, and smiled
sympathetically while they talked of the many Clavering first-nights
they would attend in the sure anticipation of that class of
entertainment up to which the Little Theatres and the Theatre Guild
were striving to educate the public.  They took it as a matter of
course that he was to abide in the stimulating atmosphere of New York
for the rest of his days.  And they invariably insisted that "Madame
Zattiany" must always sit in a stage box and be a part of the
entertainment.  They were too well-bred (and too astute) to hint at the
engagement they were positive existed, but "hoped" she would be willing
to add to the prestige of one who was now as much her friend as theirs.
It was a curious position in which to place a woman like Mary Zattiany,
but Sophisticate New York was not Diplomatic Europe, and he thought he
saw her smile deepen into humor once or twice; no doubt she was
reflecting that she had lived long enough to take people as she found
them.

His reverie was interrupted by a buzzing at the end of his hall and he
went to the door quickly, wondering who could have sent him a special
delivery letter or a note at this hour.  It proved to be a cablegram.
He read it when he returned to his living-room.  It was dated Rome,
Italy, and read:

"I'll have you yet: Janet."

Clavering swore, then laughed.  He tore the message into strips and sat
down to read his newspapers; he had merely glanced at the headlines and
his column.  His eye was arrested by the picture of a man at the top of
the first page of his own newspaper.  Although smooth-shaven and very
regular of feature, with no pronounced racial characteristics, it was,
nevertheless, a foreign face, although difficult to place.  From its
distinction it might be Austrian, but the name below, "Prince
Hohenhauer," might as easily be German.  Still, it was not a German
face, and Clavering studied it for a moment before reading the news
text, wondering faintly at his interest.

It was unmistakably the face of a statesman, and reminded him a little
of a picture of Prince Schwarzenberg, prime minister when Franz Josef
ascended the throne, he had seen lately in a history of Austria.  There
was the same broad placidity of brow, the long oval face, the thin long
slightly curved nose, the heavy lids, the slim erectness, the same
suave repose.  But this man's large beautifully cut mouth was more
firmly set, had a faintly satiric expression, and the eyes a powerful
and penetrating gaze.  It was the face of a man who was complete master
of himself and accustomed to the mastery of men.

Clavering read the story under the headlines:


  PRINCE HOHENHAUER ARRIVES IN NEW YORK
    GOES AT ONCE TO WASHINGTON

"Prince Hohenhauer, a distinguished political factor under the old
Austrian Empire, arrived yesterday morning on the Noordam.  He
refused to be interviewed, but it is understood he has a large amount
of money invested in the United States and has come to New York at the
request of his lawyers to attend to certain necessary formalities.  He
was, in fact, met at Quarantine by Judge Trent, one of the most
distinguished members of the New York Bar since his retirement from the
Bench, and they went at once to the Prince's stateroom and remained
there until it was time to leave the ship.  It is significant, however,
that the Prince, after engaging a suite at the Ritz-Carlton, and
lunching there with Judge Trent, took the afternoon train for
Washington.  As he recently left his estate in Switzerland to return to
Vienna and accept a position in the Cabinet, and as it is well known
that Austria desires the backing of the American Government to enable
her to overcome the opposition of France to her alliance with Germany,
or, it is whispered, with a kingdom farther south, it is not
unreasonable to infer that he has come to the United States on a
special, if secret, mission.

"The Prince was the subject of lively interest on the boat and of much
speculation, but he took his meals in his suite and walked the deck
only in the company of his secretary.

"He is a man of striking appearance, quite six feet in height, with a
spare erect figure, fine features, and hardly looks his sixty years, in
spite of his white hair."

Then followed a brief biography, which illustrated the efficiency of
the newspaper "morgue," for the statesman's reputation was, so far,
wholly European.

"Prince Moritz Franz Ernst Felix von Hohenhauer was born October 6th,
1862, on his ancestral estate in what was then known as Galicia.  His
mother was a princess of the House of Schwarzenberg.  He has been the
head of his own historic house for the last forty years, and has one
son and two daughters.  His wife, a member of the Kalnóky family, died
several years ago.  "Hohenhauer" was one of those almost unbelievably
vast estates of sixteen million acres possessed by a few of the
Austrian noblemen under the old régime.  In spite of the fact that
Prince Hohenhauer was one of the greatest landlords in all Christendom
he was a liberal in politics from the first and the author of several
of the reform laws in behalf of the people which from time to time were
forced upon the most conservative monarch in Europe.  He was in
sympathy with the revolution and offered his services at once to the
new Government.  They were declined, and he retired to Switzerland,
where he has an estate near St. Moritz, and, it is understood,
considerable money invested.  His vast estates in what is now Poland
were confiscated, but he was one of the wealthiest men in the Empire
and is said to have transferred immense sums to the United States
before the war."

Clavering dropped the newspaper.  Liberal in politics.  Immense sums
invested in the United States.  Judge Trent.  There could be no
possible doubt as to who the man was.  The floor seemed unsteady for a
moment.

And yet there was as little doubt that Mary Zattiany bad long since
ceased to care for him.  That was over fifteen or sixteen years ago.
They had known each other in later years, both equally indifferent to
the other and to the past. . . .  Yes . . . but she had then completely
lost the beauty and the charm that had enthralled him, while he was
still a man in his prime, who, with that appearance, no doubt had other
young and beautiful women in his life.

He may or may not have heard of the metamorphosis.  At all events they
had been political allies.  He would call on her as a matter of course.
And possibly out of more than politeness: he may have brought her an
important message.  Or he might find it expedient to confer with her on
his present mission.  That he had come on an important mission did not
admit of a doubt; but at least he had not gone to her at once.  His
interest in her, so far, was still impersonal.

Clavering had too much of the arrogance of youth and he was too sure of
Mary Zattiany's love for himself, to be apprehensive of the charms of a
man of sixty, but he was invaded by a nameless and almost sickening
fear.  He had very swift and often very sure intuitions, and he was
shaken by a premonition that in some manner, which, in his ignorance of
the facts he was unable to define, this man's presence in America boded
no good to himself.

But Clavering was also a man of swift decisions and resource, and he
knew this was no time to lose his head, nor even to play a waiting
game.  And he must tread warily.  Impulsive as he was by nature he
could be as wary as a Red Indian when wariness would serve his purpose.
He called up Mr. Dinwiddie on the telephone and asked if he might see
him at once.  It was only half past nine and Mr. Dinwiddie was just
finishing his breakfast in bed, but he told his favorite cordially to
"come along."




XLIV

"What is it?" asked Mr. Dinwiddie, as Clavering entered his bedroom
fifteen minutes later.  "This is an early call.  Thought you didn't get
up till noon."

"Went to bed early last night for a change.  I've come to ask a favor.
I'll smoke, if you don't mind."

He took a chair beside the bed, where Mr. Dinwiddie, in skull cap and
decorous pyjamas, leaned against high pillows, happily digesting his
breakfast, with the newspapers beside him.  Clavering smoked for a few
moments in silence, while his host watched him keenly.  He had never
seen his young friend in quite this mood.  There was a curious deadly
stillness about him.

"What is it, Lee?" he asked when curiosity finally got the better of
him.  "Nothing wrong between you and Mary, I hope?  Of course you know
it's all over town that you're engaged to her.  Don't mind my saying
this, do you?  And you know you can trust me.  Nothing like an old
gossip for keeping a confidence sacred."

"Well, I am.  But she chooses not to announce it and that is her right.
And here is where you can help me.  I want you to open your camp in the
Adirondacks and give Mary a house party.  I suppose Larsing and his
wife are still there?"

"Yes, but it's too early----"

"Spring is early this year.  The ice must have gone out.  And the house
is always comfortable; we've often had fires there when people were
having sunstroke in New York.  I want you to get busy, so that we can
leave tomorrow morning----"

"Tomorrow morning?  You young dynamo.  It can't be done."

"It can.  I'll call up the people I want in a few minutes--from here.
You can telephone to the camp.  Provisions can go tonight.  I'll see to
that also----"

"But can you get away yourself?"

"I'd get away if I had to resign, but I shan't.  I shall break away for
two months later anyhow.  We have planned to marry in Austria in about
a month from now."

"Then why in thunder do you want to run off to the woods with her now?
I never heard of anything so unreasonable.  She has friends here who'd
like to see her until the last minute, you selfish young beggar----"

"It's the most reasonable thing I ever did.  Don't insist upon an
explanation, Din.  Just accept my word that it's a vital matter to me."

"Ah!  But I know!"  Mr. Dinwiddie's eyes glittered.  "Hohenhauer is
here.  That's the milk in the cocoanut."

Clavering scowled.  "What do you mean by that?"

"I--I--well--there was a good deal of talk at the time--but then you
know, Lee, I told you the very first time we both saw her that there
had been stories about Mary."

"Well, as it happens, she told me about this man, although not his
name.  Enough, however, for me to know at once this morning who he was.
I don't intend she shall see him."

"You don't mean to tell me that you are jealous of Hohenhauer.  Why,
that was nearly twenty years ago, and he is almost as old as I am."

"I'm not jealous, but I've got a hunch."  He scowled again, for he
fancied he could see that old story unrolling itself in Dinwiddie's
mind.  It is one thing to dismiss the past with a lordly gesture and
another to see it rise from the dead and peer from old eyes.  He went
on calmly, however.  "I've no faith, myself, in the making of bonfires
out of dead ashes, but all the same I scent danger and I intend to get
her away and keep her away until the day before she sails; and I'll
marry her the morning she does.  I'll take no chances of their
travelling on the same steamer."

"I see.  Perhaps you are right.  He's a damn good-looking chap, too,
and has that princely distinction peculiar to Austrians.  Some European
princes look like successful businessmen of the Middle-West.  I was
once stranded at Abbazia, Austria's Riviera, during a rainy spell, and
as there were only two other people in the vast dining-room I thought
I'd speak to them.  I took for granted they were Americans.  He was a
big heavy man, with one of those large, round, fat, shrewd, weary faces
you see by the hundreds in the lobbies of Chicago hotels.  She looked
like a New England school-marm, and wore a red plaid waist.  Well--he
was the reigning prince of Carlstadt-Rudolfstein, one of those
two-by-six German principalities, and she was an Austrian archduchess.
She was the only Austrian I ever saw that didn't look like one, but her
manners were charming and we became great friends and they took me home
with them to their beautiful old castle. . . .  Ah, those wonderful old
German castles!  Profiteers living in them today, I suppose.  But
Hohenhauer is a perfect specimen of his class--and then some.  I met
him once in Paris.  Intensely reserved, but opened up one night at a
small dinner.  I never met a more charming man in my life.  And
unquestionably one of the ablest men in Europe. . . .  However, he's
sixty and you're thirty-four.  If he has any influence over her it's
political, and in European politics one never knows what dark business
is going on under the surface.  Good idea to get Mary away.  I'll get
some fun out of it, too.  Who'll you ask?"

"None of your crowd.  How many bedrooms have you?  I don't remember."

"Ten.  If you want a large party you can turn in with me.  There are
twin beds in every room.  I don't know how Mary'll like it; she's a
luxurious creature, you know, and we don't go to the woods to be
comfortable----"

"You forget she got pretty well used to worse while she was running
that hospital.  And hardy people never do mind."

"True.  I'll give her a room to herself, for I don't see her
doubling-up, at all events.  That would leave eight good-sized rooms.
Don't ask all married couples, Lee, for heaven's sake.  Let's have two
girls, at least.  But the season is still on.  Sure you can get
anybody?"

"Of course.  They're not all pinned down to regular jobs, and will be
only too glad to get out of New York after a grinding winter.  The
novelty of a house party in the mountains at this season will appeal to
them.  I'll call up Gora first."

He was crossing the room to the telephone when Mr. Dinwiddie said
hesitatingly: "And so--so--you're really going to marry Mary?  Have you
thought what it means?  I mean your own career.  She'll never live
here--she's out of the picture and knows it."

Clavering took down the receiver and called Miss Dwight's number.  Mr.
Dinwiddie sighed and shrugged his shoulders.  But his eyes were bright.
He would have a love drama under his very nose.




XLV

Mary's "headache" had continued for two days, but Clavering came to her
house by appointment that same afternoon at five o'clock.  She kept him
waiting fully ten minutes, and wandered back and forth in her room
upstairs with none of her usual eagerness to welcome him after even a
brief separation.  The violence of her revulsion had passed, but she
was filled with a vast depression, apathetic, tired, in no mood for
love-making.  Nor did she feel up to acting, and Clavering's intuitions
were often very inconvenient.  He would never suspect the black turmoil
of these past two days, nor its cause, but it would be equally
disconcerting if he attributed her low spirits to the arrival of
Hohenhauer.  What a fool she had been to have made more than a glancing
reference to that last old love-affair, almost forgotten until that
night of stark revelation.  She must have enjoyed talking about herself
more than she had realized, unable to resist the temptation to indulge
in imposing details.  Or self-justification?  Perhaps.  It didn't
matter, and he must have "placed" Hohenhauer at once this morning, and
would imagine that she was depressed at the thought of meeting him.
There was no one on earth she wanted to meet less, although she felt a
good deal of curiosity as to the object of his visit to Washington.

She heard the maid in the dressing-room and was visited by an
inspiration.  She called in the woman, gave her a key and told her to
go down to the dining-room and bring her a glass of curacoa from the
wine-cupboard.

The liqueur sent a glow of warmth through her veins and raised her
spirits.  Then, reflecting that Clavering never rushed at her in the
fashion of most lovers, nor even greeted her with a perfunctory kiss,
but waited until the mood for love-making attacked him suddenly, she
took a last look at her new tea-gown of corn-flower blue chiffon and
went down stairs with a light step.

"Shocking to keep you waiting," she said as they shook hands, "but I
came in late.  You'll stay to dinner, of course.  I had an engagement
but broke it, as I'm still feeling a little out of sorts."

"Never saw you look better.  Nor in blue before.  You look like a lily
in a blue vase, or a snow maiden rising from a blue mist.  Not that I'm
feeling poetic today, but you do look ripping.  What gave you a
headache?  I thought you scorned the ills of the flesh."

"So I do, but I had spent three hours in Judge Trent's office that
morning, and you know what these American men are.  They keep the heat
on no matter what the temperature outside, and every window closed.  On
Tuesday the sun was blazing in besides, and Judge Trent and the two
other men I was obliged to confer with smoked cigars incessantly.  It
gave me the first headache I'd had for twenty years.  I felt as if I'd
been poisoned."

She looked up at him, smilingly, from her deep chair as he stood above
her on the hearthrug.  He didn't believe a word of it: he was convinced
she had been advised of Hohenhauer's coming, and that for some reason
the news had upset her; but he had no intention of betraying himself.
Moreover, he didn't care.  He was too intent on his own plans.

"The rest has done you good," he said, smiling also.  "But as you were
looking rather fagged before you came down with that two-days'
headache, I made up my mind that you needed a change and dropped Din a
hint to open his camp in the Adirondacks and give you a farewell
house-party.  He jumped at the idea and it's all arranged.  You'll have
eight days of outdoor life and some sport, as well as a good rest.
He's got a big comfortable camp on a beautiful lake, where we can boat
and fish----"

"But Lee----"  She was almost gasping.

"No buts.  Not only do you need a rest before that long journey but I
want these last days with you in the mountains where I can have you
almost to myself.  It seems to me sometimes that I do not know you at
all--nor you me.  And to roam with you in the woods during the day and
float about that lake at night--it came to me suddenly like a foretaste
of heaven.  I couldn't stand the thought of the separation otherwise.
Besides, here you'd be given a farewell luncheon or dinner every day
until you sailed.  I'd see nothing of you.  And you'd be worn out.  You
must come, Mary dear."

Mary felt dimly suspicious, but it was possible that he had read his
morning papers hastily, or that in his mental turmoil that night she
had told him her story he had paid little attention to details, or
forgotten them later.  He certainly had never alluded to the man since.
And this sudden impetuous plan was so like him that he needed no
foreign impulse.

But she answered with some hesitation: "I'd like it, of course.  And
Judge Trent has nothing more for me to sign until the last minute.
But--a woman always has a thousand things to do before going on a
journey----"

"Your maid can do all that.  And pack your trunks.  She goes with you,
doesn't she?  And you'll only need warm sweaters and skirts up there.
We never dress.  You'll not need a maid."

"Well--but--do you mean to tell me that the whole thing is settled?"

"To the last detail.  There'll be twelve of us, including Din."

"Really, Lee, you are high-handed.  You might have consulted me
first."

"No time to waste on argument.  We'll only have a little over a week
there as it is.  It takes a day to go and another to return, and you'll
need one day here in New York before you sail.  I made up my mind you
should go if I had to take you by force.  I will have those last days
in the Adirondacks."

Her faint resentment vanished and she felt a languid sense of
well-being in this enveloping atmosphere of the tactless imperious
male, so foreign to her experience; of freedom from the necessity for
independent action; and the prospect was certainly enchanting.
Moreover, she would be able to avoid seeing Hohenhauer in surroundings
where this strange love-affair of hers had obliterated the past (for
the most part!), and she had found, for a time at least, happiness and
peace.  She would see him in Vienna, of course, and she had no wish to
avoid him there; no doubt they would work together and as impersonally
as they had sometimes done in the past; but to see him here, even in
the drawing-room, which held no sacred memories, would be but another
and uglier blot on her already dimming idyl; and a subtle infidelity to
this man whose every thought seemed to be of her in spite of all he had
to inflame and excite his ego.

And if she remained and Hohenhauer wished to see her she could hardly
keep on making excuses for nearly a fortnight.  So she merely smiled up
at Clavering, who was gazing down at her intently, and said softly: "Of
course I'll go.  I always have sport things in my wardrobe and I think
it a wonderful idea.  Now tell me who is going.  Miss Dwight, I
suppose--and hope.  And the De Witt Turners?"  Madame Zattiany had no
respect whatever for the Lucy Stone League, and invariably forgot the
paternal names of the emancipated young wives of the men she found
interesting.

"They can't get away.  Gora, yes; and Rolly Todd, the Boltons, the
Minors, Eva Darling, Babette Gold, Gerald Scores."

"Miss Darling is rather a nuisance.  She flung her arms round me the
other night at the Minors' and left a pink kiss on my neck.  She was
very tight.  Still, she is amusing, and a favorite of Din's."

"I would have submitted the list to you in the first place, darling,
but I knew I should have to take what I could get on such short notice.
The only two I really care about are Gora and Todd.  But there wasn't a
moment to lose.  I wish to heaven I'd thought of it before, but that
play had to be finished, and it looked as if the date of your sailing
might be postponed, after all."

He had no intention of letting her suspect that the wonderful plan was
just eight hours old.

"I understand," she said.  "When do we start?"

"Tomorrow morning.  Eight-thirty.  Grand Central."

"Tomorrow morning!"  She looked almost as dismayed as Mr. Dinwiddie had
done, then laughed and shrugged her shoulders.  "Of course it can be
done--but----"

"Anything can be done," he said darkly.  And then, having got his way,
he suddenly felt happy and irresponsible, and made one of his abrupt
wild dives at her.




XLVI

The "camp," a large log house, with a great living-room, a small room
for guns and fishing-tackle, two bedrooms, besides the servants' wing,
downstairs, and eight bedrooms above, stood in a clearing on the
western shore of a lake nearly two miles long, and about three-quarters
of a mile wide in the centre of its fine oval sweep.  The lake itself
was in a cup of the mountains, whose slopes in the distance looked as
if covered with fur, so dense were the woods.  Only one high peak,
burnt bare by fire, was still covered with snow.

The camp was in a grove of pines, but the trees that crowded one
another almost out into the lake among the lily pads were spruce and
balsam and maple.

The party arrived at half-past nine in the evening, and crossed the
lake in a motor launch.  It was very dark and the forest surrounding
the calm expanse of water looked like an impenetrable wall, an
unscalable rampart.  There was not a sound but the faint chugging of
the motor.  The members of the party, tired after their long trip on
the train and two hours' drive up the rough road from the station to
the lake, surrendered to the high mountain stillness, and even Rollo
Todd, who had been in his best spirits all day, fell silent and forgot
that he was a jolly good fellow, remembered only that he was a poet.
Eva Darling, who had flirted shamelessly with Mr. Dinwiddie from New
York to Huntersville, forgot to hold his hand, and he forgot her
altogether.

Mary had a sudden and complete sense of isolation.  Memory had played
her a trick.  These were the mountains of her girlhood, and she was
Mary Ogden once more.  Even the future that had been so hard of outline
in her practical mind, that unescapable future just beyond a brief
interval in an Austrian mountain solitude, seemed to sink beyond a
horizon infinitely remote.  Europe was as unreal as New York.  She
vowed, if it were necessary to vow, that she would give neither a
thought while she was here in the wilderness.  And as she was a
thorough-going person she knew she would succeed.

She took her first step when Mr. Dinwiddie was showing them to their
rooms.  She drew Gora into her own room and shut the door.

"I want you to do me a favor--if you will, dear Miss Dwight," she said.

"Of course."  Gora wondered what was coming.

"I want you to ask the others to abandon their subtle game while we are
up here and ignore the subjects of Lee's play, his future, his genius,
which will wither outside of New York, and cease to attempt to strike
terror into my soul.  You may tell them that we are to be married in a
month or two from now--in Austria--but that I shall do nothing to
interfere with his career; nor protest against his passing a part of
each year in the United States.  Ask them kindly to refrain from
congratulations, or any allusion to the subject whatever.  We have only
eight days here, and I should like it to be as nearly perfect as
possible."

Gora had had the grace to blush.  "They have been worried, and I'm
afraid they hatched a rather naughty plot.  But they'll be delighted to
have their apprehensions banished--and of course they'll ignore the
entire matter.  They won't say a word to Clavey, either."

"They've not made the slightest impression on him, so it really doesn't
matter whether they do or not.  But--when it dawned on me what they
were up to, and the sound reasoning beneath it, I will confess that I
had some bad half-hours.  Of course, Lee has a right to his own life.
I had hoped he would help me in my own field, but he could not if he
would.  I have come to see that plainly.  I do not mean to say that
these amiable machinations of your friends caused me for a moment to
consider giving him up.  I have survived worse----"  She shuddered as
she recalled that hideous hour with Agnes Trevor, but promptly whipped
the memory back to cover.  "But it made me very uncomfortable, and I
realized there was nothing to do but compromise.  We must take what we
can get in this world, my dear Miss Dwight, and be thankful for a
candle when we cannot have the sun."

And Gora, feeling unaccountably saddened, summoned the others to her
room and told them of Madame Zattiany's announcement and request.  Some
gasped with astonishment and delight, others were darkly suspicious,
but all gave their word unhesitatingly to "forget it" while they were
in camp.  Those that regarded Madame Zattiany as the most fascinating
woman they had ever known, but also as an intrigante of dark and
winding ways, made a mental reservation to "say a few things to Clavey"
before he had time to buy his ticket for the Dolomites.

Mary, having accomplished her purpose, swept the whole thing from her
mind and looked about her room with pleasure.  The walls were ceiled
with a wood that gleamed like gold in the candle-light, and gave out a
faint scent of the forest.  On the bare floor were two or three small
blue rugs, there were pretty blue counterpanes on the beds, and blue
curtains on the small windows.  It looked like a young girl's room and
was indescribably sweet and fresh.  Her own room at her father's camp,
on another lake many miles away, had been not unlike it.  Moreover, it
was pleasantly warm, for the caretaker had made a fire in the furnace
the day before.  A window was open and she could hear the soft lap of
the water among the lily pads, but there was no moon and she could see
nothing but a dim black wall on the opposite shore.  And the silence!
It might not have been broken since the glacial era, when mighty masses
of ice ground these mountains into permanent form, and the air was
filled with the roaring horrors of desolation.  But they had gone, and
left infinite peace behind them.  That peace had endured for many
thousands of years and it was unimaginable that any but the puny sounds
of man would disturb that vast repose for thousands of years to come.
The peaks of those old Adirondacks, their quiet lakes, their massive
forests, looked as deathless as time itself.  "The Great North Woods"
could not have been more remote from, more scornful of the swarming
cities called civilization, if they had been on another star.

Luxury in camp did not extend to hot water in the bedrooms,
particularly as Mr. Dinwiddie had had no time to assemble a corps of
servants, and as Mary washed her face and hands in what felt like
melted ice, the shock made her tingle and she would have liked to sing.

A deep bell sounded.  Doors flew open up and down the corridor, which
was immediately filled with an eager chatter.  Rollo Todd stamped down
the stair singing "Oh, Hunger, Sweet Hunger!"  The others took it up in
various keys, and when Mary went down a moment later they were all
swarming about the dining-table at the end of the living-room.

This room, which was fully fifty feet long and half as wide, was lit by
lamps suspended from the ceiling and heated by an immense fireplace in
which logs, that looked like half-sections of trees, were blazing in a
pile as high as a small bonfire.  The walls were ceiled and decorated
with antlered deerheads, woven bright Indian blankets, snap-shots of
Mr. Dinwiddie's many guests, and old Indian weapons.  In one corner,
above a divan covered with gay cushions, were bookshelves filled with
old novels.  A shelf had been built along one side of the room for fine
specimens of Indian pottery and basket weaving.  The comfortable chairs
were innumerable, and there was another divan, and a victrola.  The
guide had filled the vases with balsam, whose pungent odor blended with
the resinous fumes of the burning logs; and through the open door came
the scents of the forest.

"Ideal place for everything but spooning," cried Todd.  "The woods and
the lake are all right in fine weather, but what do you expect us to do
if it rains, mine host?  D'you mean to say you haven't any little
retiring rooms?"

"Not a thing unless you retire to the gun-room, but who comes up to the
woods to spoon in the house?"

"Rolly never spoons, anyhow," announced Eva Darling, whose blue eyes,
however, were languishing toward the table.  "But it makes him unhappy
to think he can't burst in on somebody----"

"Hold your tongue, Evy.  You don't know what you're talking about.
Because I'm quite insensible to your charms, don't fool yourself that
I'm an anchorite.  I merely prefer brunettes."

"Come, come, children!"  Mr. Dinwiddie was rubbing his hands at the end
of the table covered with blue china and mounds of home-made cake.
"Stop quarrelling and sit down.  Anywhere.  No ceremony here."

Some of the guests were in their seats.  The others fairly swooped into
theirs, entirely regardless of anything so uneatable as neighbors.
Mrs. Larsing, a tall, red-haired, raw-boned New England woman, had
entered, bearing an enormous platter of fried trout, fresh from the
lake.  Larsing, burnt almost as dark as an Indian, followed with a
plate of potatoes boiled in their jackets balanced on one hand, and a
small mountain of johnny cake on the other.  He returned in a moment
with two large platters of sliced ham and cold boiled beef, and the
guests were left to wait on themselves.

The dinner was the gayest Mary had ever attended, for even the
Sophisticates, however lively, preserved a certain formality in town;
when she was present, at all events.  Rollo Todd, broke into periodical
war whoops, to Mr. Dinwiddie's manifest delight.  The others burst into
song, while waiting for the travelling platters.  Eva Darling got up
twice and danced by herself, her pale bobbed head and little white face
eerily suspended in the dark shadows of the great room.  Other feet
moved irresistibly under the table.  Good stories multiplied, and they
laughed uncontrollably at the worst of the jokes.

They drank little, for the supply was limited, but the altitude was
four thousand feet and the thin light air went to their heads.  They
were New Yorkers suddenly snatched from the most feverish pitch of
modern civilization, but no less primitive in soul than woodsmen who
had never seen a city, and the men would have liked to put on war paint
and run through the forest with tomahawks.

Todd, when the dinner was over, did seize a tomahawk from the wall,
drape himself in an Indian blanket, and march up and down the room
roaring out terrific battle-cries.  Three minutes later, Minor and
Bolton had followed his example, and marched solemnly behind him,
brandishing their weapons and making unearthly noises.  Mary, from her
chair by the hearth, watched them curiously.  At first it was merely
the exuberant spirits of their release and the unaccustomed altitude
that inspired them, but their countenances grew more and more sombre,
their eyes wilder, their voices more war-like.  They were no longer
doing a stunt, they were atavistic.  Their voices reverberated across
the lake.

One by one the other men had joined them, until even Mr. Dinwiddie was
in the procession, marching with loud stamping feet round and round the
big room.  The cries became shorter, menacing, abrupt, imperative.  The
high lamps cast strange shadows on their lost faces.  The voices grew
hoarse, dropped to low growls, their faces changed from ferocity to a
mournful solemnity until they looked even more like primal men than
before; but they continued their marching and stamping until Gora, who,
with the other women, had begun to fear that the rhythm would bring
down the house, had the inspiration to insert a Caruso disk into the
victrola; and as those immortal notes flung themselves imperiously
across that wild scene, the primitive in the men dropped like a leaden
plummet, and they threw themselves on the floor by the fire.  But they
smoked their pipes in silence.  They had had something that no woman
could give them nor share, and there was an ungallant wish in every
manly heart that they had left the women at home.

Caruso was succeeded by Emma Eames, and the great lost diva by Farrar
and Scotti.  Then, the concert over, a yawning party stumbled upstairs
to bed and not a sound was heard from them until the first bell rang at
seven o'clock next morning.




XLVII

"You forgot me last night."

"Yes, I did."  Clavering smiled unrepentantly.

"You looked horribly primitive."

"No more so than I felt."

They were in a boat on the lake.  The air was crisp and cold although
the sun blazed overhead.  Clavering was happy in a disreputable old
sweater that he kept at the camp, and baggy corduroy trousers tucked
into leggins, but Mary wore an angora sweater and skirt of a vivid
grass green and a soft sport hat of the same shade, the rim turned down
over eyes that might never have looked upon life beyond these woods and
mountains.  Clavering was hatless and smoked his pipe lazily as he
pulled with long slow strokes.

Other boats were on the lake, the women in bright sweaters and hats
that looked like floating autumn leaves, and the lake was liquid amber.
A breeze blew warm scents out of the woods.  The water lilies had
opened to the sun and looked oddly artificial in their waxen beauty, at
the feet of those ancient trees.  Stealthy footsteps behind that wall
of trees, or a sudden loud rustling, told of startled deer.  The
distant peak looked to be enamelled blue and white, and the long slopes
of the nearer mountains were dark green under a blue mist, the higher
spruce rising like Gothic spires.

Clavering smiled into her dancing eyes.  "You look about fourteen," he
said tenderly.

"I don't feel much more.  I spent a month or two every year in these
woods--let us play a game.  Make believe that I am Mary Ogden and you
have met me here for the first time and are deliberately setting out to
woo me.  Begin all over again.  It--you, perhaps!--was what I always
dreamed of up here.  I used to row on the lake for hours by myself, or
sit alone in the very depths of the woods.  Do you think that famous
imagination of yours could accomplish a purely personal feat?  I
haven't nearly as much but I'm quite sure I could.  And then--after--we
could just go on from here."

He looked at her in smiling sympathy.  "Done.  We met last night, Miss
Ogden, and I went down at the first shot.  I'm now out to win you or
perish in the attempt.  But before we get down to business I'll just
inform you of a resolution I took a day or two ago.  I shall get a
license the day we return and marry you the morning you sail."

"Oh!"  And then she realized in a blinding flash what she had fought
out of her consciousness: that she had shrunk from the consummation of
marriage, visualized a long period of intermittent but superficial
love-making and delightful companionship, an exciting but incomplete
idyl of mind and soul and senses. . . .  Underneath always an undertone
of repulsion and incurable ennui . . . the dark residuum of immedicable
disillusion . . . that what she had really wanted was love with its
